Title: Adding Your DIYTrax LP Offer Link to Custom Values
Original Title: DIYTrax LP Offer Link in Custom Value
Video ID: BgxXseNNcM4ywRXp

---

In this video, I'll show you how to add your DIY Tracks landing page offer link into your Flexi custom values. First, let's navigate to our custom values in our Flexi account. Once you're logged in, go to the settings on the left side and click on it. Then, scroll down until you find custom values and click on that. Here, you'll see an entry labeled DIY Tracks underscore landing underscore page underscore offer link, along with the squiggly brackets indicating the custom value.

This is the section we will be editing, so we need to add the link here. Click on the three little dots to edit this custom value. You'll enter the value you get from DIY Tracks, specifically your DIY Tracks landing page offer link. When you're in your campaign setup, make sure you've created and saved an initial campaign and set up the basic parameters. Then, click on the far-right tab labeled links and pixels to navigate to that page. The landing page offer link is the second one down. 

You can click the clipboard icon to copy this link. I've blurred out some letters and numbers here, but it will look something like dot DIY Tracks dot app forward slash T2. This is your unique T2 DIY Tracks link, and everyone's link will be different. This link is what you'll use on every landing page that directs to the offers. DIY Tracks knows where to send it based on the other parameters in the campaign URL above. 

To copy the link, you can click the clipboard icon, highlight it and hit Control C, or right-click and select copy. Once you have it copied, navigate back to your Flexi account and paste it into the custom value field. Then, update it. Now, you have your DIY Tracks T2 link in your custom values for the DIY Tracks landing page offer link. You should see the squiggly bracket custom value in the middle. That’s it! In another video, we'll discuss how to use this value in your landing pages to ensure everything works properly.
