Ok, now I want to discuss how to structure things going forward. First I need you to research where in the legacy system all of the documents are stored (transcripts, documents, faqs, gloseries, etc.) , I have a feeling they are scattered over different places and not organized well. I want to fix that by craeting a proper organization specifically for this part of the process, IE the AI knowledgebase and associated pages. for starters things need renaming to make things clear (both in the front end UI/admin menu) and on the backed so there isnt potential for conflicting naming infrastructure. my idea is that the main menu (currently knowledgebase) should be called AI Knowledgebase (unless you see an issue where this might already conflict with how things are named on the backend - other processes/systems that are using this). 

Then we need to create a structure for how to deal with structure within that (both front end and backend). The basic idea is we have the AI Source Knowledge, which needs to be subcategorized. the Source Knowledge is the training material itself we use for the process for which we have developed our taxomomy for which how to learn from that training material. this is stuff like group coaching call transcripts, private coaching transcripts, 1-on-1 VA call transcripts, blitz video transcripts, and other documents we may have as raw sources that need to be interpreted and used to create our truth documents that will actually live in the Live Documents. So This AI Souce knowledge should have its own folder (or path, or whatever you call it), with subfolders for properly organizing the source knowledge by file type.

Then, we similarly need a path (folder) for where to store things that are Live Documents - this I am open to suggestions of how to best organize internally given your understanding of the new taxonomy and schema we developed which should be extensivly documented in that document which was our guiding in depth overview that explained the reasoning behind the related AI tasks (somewhere around #1402-1409, give or take). 

After we are done creating a new system of organization and naming/sorage structure, then we can do through and look at all of the documents where are currently in the Live Documents page, and talk about how sift through them to see which need to be deleted, or renamed and reorganized and placed in the AI Source Knowledge database, because as of right now there should not be anything in the actual live documents, we need to start from scratch be recreating an ourganized and systematic AI Source Knowledge database that we can then run through our newly built engine for processing those documents behind our document review. 

So I think that apart from discussing how to create a a naming and organizational file structure on the backend, I think we need to add Source Knowledge as a page in the knowledgebase drop down (for all the raw materials), unless you think that page can have a better name. that way we will have a place for raw knowledge (which will be added to once the portal is live and we have more calls), and a place for reviewing the documents that are created from that raw knowledge (document review - can be renamed if you have suggestions to make it more clear), and a place for the live documents (the documents the member-facing the AI assistant can actually see and create responses from in conversations with members). 

this is a big restructure, so I want to make sure we think things through and get it right, but I think by creating an entirely new backend organizational and naming structure, we have an opportunity to create something efficient, and merge things into that system from our legacy folder organization and only keep what we want when we want, and then get rid of the old files and folders once they are no longer needed.