SURGICAL EDIT: Image Foundations member doc series (8 files) — subject-neutral devices, focal-point cropping, vocabulary alignment
Mission
Revise the eight member training docs in docs/image-foundations/ to match the updated canon already applied to the AI KB image docs. Three changes throughout: (A) subject-neutral attention devices (works for pet products, not only humans — but as unified rules, never if-human/if-pet branching), (B) crop-to-the-focal-point replaces "shoulders-up" absolutes, scaled by where the image lives, (C) vocabulary alignment: "thumbnail" → "the ad image" / "the ad", no "surface(s)" as a framework noun, never the word "placement".

Hard rules
Scope: these 8 files ONLY. Do not touch the database, artifacts/api-server/src/lib/seed-image-foundations-staging.ts, anything under research/, or any KB staging/live rows (the AI docs were already edited separately).
Do not rename any file. Filenames stay exactly as-is (the PDF pipeline and any references depend on them). Only content and H1 titles change.
Before each targeted edit, verify the target string exists verbatim in the file. If a listed target is not found verbatim, STOP and report the discrepancy instead of improvising.
Confirm the working tree is clean first so git checkout -- can revert any file.
NEVER use the word "placement" anywhere — it is a reserved term in this program's teaching.
Preserve each doc's voice, structure, and length discipline. These are polished teaching docs; edits must read as if originally written this way.
Human examples all stay. Animal examples are additions only (~4–5 sentences total across docs 2, 6, 8), always as illustrations of the same rule, never as separate branches or "if your subject is a pet…" forks.
Global vocabulary rules (apply to ALL 8 files)
"thumbnail" → "the ad image" (or "the ad" where it means the ad unit). "the native ad thumbnail" → "the ad image (the image inside the ad unit in the feed)". After editing, grep -ri "thumbnail" docs/image-foundations/ must return zero hits.
"at thumbnail size" / "thumbnail size" → "at feed size" (phone, in-feed render size).
Drop "surface(s)" as a framework noun. Replace with concrete names — "the ad", "the advertorial page", "the jump page" — or with "where the image lives". After editing, every remaining grep -riw "surface\|surfaces" docs/image-foundations/ hit must be the ordinary idiom "on the surface" (Doc 6's "campaigns that look fine on the surface" is the only allowed hit) — nothing else.
Never "placement". grep -riw "placement" docs/image-foundations/ must return zero.
Cross-references to Document 2: "Document 2, Faces, Gaze, and Hands" appears in Doc 4 (×1), Doc 5 (×2), Doc 7 (×2), Doc 8 (×2) — 7 occurrences, none in Doc 3. Each becomes "Document 2, The Attention Devices".
Canonical phrasings
Canonical device principle (A) — use verbatim in Doc 2:

Lead with an expressive subject caught in a legible moment. The attention device is whatever carries the story's emotion or action at a glance — a face with a natural, readable expression, or the moment of use (mid-action). Crop tight enough that the emotion or action is unmistakable at phone size.

Crop principle (B): crop to the focal point — the thing carrying the emotion or action — tight enough that it reads at feed size. How tight scales with where the image lives: on the ad, crop tightest (the focal point fills the frame at feed size); on the advertorial page and jump page, surrounding context is allowed as long as the focal point still reads first. When in doubt, crop tighter.

Per-doc edits
Doc 1 — 01-the-three-jobs-of-an-ad-image.md (vocabulary anchor — edit first)
Line 5 note stays ("this document defines the vocabulary…").
§"The Wrong First Question": "name the surface first, then judge the image against that surface's one job." → "name where the image lives first, then judge the image against that place's one job."
§"The Three Surfaces" → retitle "The Three Places an Image Works". Body: "those three surfaces are:" → "those three places are:". List item 1: "The native ad thumbnail (the image inside the ad unit in the feed)." → "The ad image (the image inside the ad unit in the feed).". "each of these surfaces is talking to a reader" → "each of these places puts the image in front of a reader".
§"1. The Thumbnail — Wins QUALIFIED Attention" → "1. The Ad Image — Wins QUALIFIED Attention"; all in-body "thumbnail" → "ad image" / "the ad".
§"2. The Advertorial Image — Confirms the Scent": swap "thumbnail" mentions.
§"3. The Jump Page Image…": "The image on this surface" → "The image on this page"; "the one surface where slightly cleaner imagery is allowed" → "the one place slightly cleaner imagery is allowed"; "the way a thumbnail does" → "the way an ad image does".
§"Why Cheap Wrong Clicks Poison Everything": swap "thumbnail" → "ad image" throughout.
§"Reader Warmth": "the per-surface rules" → "the per-page rules"; "The thumbnail must communicate" → "The ad image must communicate".
§"Congruence": "Three surfaces, three jobs" → "Three places, three jobs"; "each surface re-expresses" → "each one re-expresses"; swap "thumbnail" mentions; "good for which surface" → "good for which of the three places".
§"How to Use This Series": "the three surfaces, their three jobs" → "the three places an image works, their three jobs"; "how it dials across the three surfaces" → "how it dials across the three places"; "changes with the surface" → "changes with where the image lives"; Document 2 pointer text "how faces and gaze direction pull the eye" → "how expressive subjects and gaze direction pull the eye"; final habit line "name the surface, name its job" → "name where the image lives, name its job".
Key Takeaways: rewrite bullets accordingly. Specifically: "An image is only good for a surface — always name the surface before you judge the image" → "An image is only good for the place it lives — always name that place before you judge the image"; "There are three surfaces, each with one job: the thumbnail wins…" → "There are three places, each with one job: the ad image wins…"; swap remaining "surface(s)"/"thumbnail" in bullets 3–6.
Doc 2 — 02-faces-gaze-and-hands.md (epicenter — heaviest rewrite; filename unchanged)
New H1: # The Attention Devices: Expressive Subjects and the Moment of Use

§"The Face Gets the First Glance — Then What?" — Keep the eye-tracking/pre-attentive faces material, but reframe the wrapper: the pre-attentive pull belongs to expressive faces generally — a dog's cocked-head, ears-up expression is read just as fast and just as emotionally as a human face. Insert the canonical device principle (verbatim, above) as the section's thesis. "Most weak thumbnails aren't weak because they lack a face" → "Most weak ad images aren't weak because they lack a face". "making the human element in your image earn its place" → "making the attention device in your image earn its place"; closing list "…the face, what its eyes are doing, what its expression is promising — and the quieter, equally powerful cousin of the face, a pair of hands doing something" → "…the expressive subject, what its gaze is doing, what its expression is promising — and the equal peer of the face, the moment of use: the subject mid-action."
§"The Gaze Rule" — mechanics stay (direct/aimed/jobless). "When the person in your image looks straight down the lens" → "When the subject in your image looks straight down the lens"; add ONE animal illustration to aimed gaze (e.g. "— a cat staring fixedly at a half-hidden toy transfers the reader's attention to that toy exactly the way a person's gaze would"). "an arrow made of a human being" → "an arrow made of a living being".
§"Expression Is a Claim" — stays nearly intact (worried/relieved/amazed human examples stay). One neutral touch: expressions must be natural and readable, whatever the subject.
§"Craft Rules at the Size That Matters" —
Delete the "Shoulders up, or closer." paragraph. Replace with a "Crop to the focal point." paragraph teaching principle (B): crop to whatever carries the emotion or action, tight enough to be unmistakable at feed size; a full-body shot turns the expression into a smudge; how tight scales with where the image lives — tightest on the ad, context allowed on the advertorial and jump pages as long as the focal point reads first; when in doubt, crop tighter.
"One face." paragraph → "One subject, one emotional read." Same argument (split fixation, blurred emotional read), subject-neutral wording.
"Real over posed" and "Never a real, identifiable person…" paragraphs stay (compliance rules remain human-specific by design).
§"Hands: The Human Signal Without a Face" → retitle "The Moment of Use: Action Without a Face". Reframe hands as the most common instance of the broader device — the moment of use, the subject mid-action. All hands content stays (demonstrate vs display, UGC-by-default, first-person POV); "the second-strongest human signal" → "the second of the two attention devices — a full peer of the face, not a fallback"; add ONE animal illustration (e.g. "a dog mid-leap catching the toy is the moment of use — no hands required"). "One hand-action" → "One action". "the hand version of the jobless gaze" → "the action-device version of the jobless gaze".
DELETE the deterministic close, target verbatim: So choose your device by the job. Use a face when the story is about the person and what they feel. Use hands when the story is about the doing. If you're wondering "do I even need a person in the shot?", the honest answer is usually yes — but a person can be a pair of hands. Replace with a subject-neutral close: choose the device by what the story is about — an expressive face (human or animal) when the story is the feeling; the moment of use when the story is the doing. No "do I need a person" question, no "usually yes".
§"One Subject, Always — and the Side-by-Side Exception" — "all thumbnail composition" → "all ad-image composition"; "A single face or a single hand-action" → "A single expressive subject or a single moment of use"; "One person, one object, one moment" → "One subject, one moment"; "effectively two thumbnails sharing one frame" → "effectively two ad images sharing one frame". Rest stays.
§"Calibrating the Toolkit Across the Three Surfaces" → retitle "Dialing the Devices Across the Funnel". Opening line, target verbatim: The face-and-hands toolkit doesn't change from surface to surface, but which tool you reach for — and how hard you lean on it — shifts as the reader warms up. → The devices don't change from the ad to the advertorial page to the jump page, but which one you reach for — and how hard you lean on it — shifts as the reader warms up. Bullet labels: "Ad thumbnail — …" → "The ad — …"; "Advertorial — faces carry the narrative" → "The advertorial page — the subject carries the narrative"; jump-page bullet keeps its label minus "surface" wording. In-body: "the human element does its hardest work" → "the attention device does its hardest work"; "The person should look like the reader, or like the reader's situation" → "The subject should look like the reader's situation — the person, or the pet, the reader recognizes as their own"; "the visual question the thumbnail is opening" → "the visual question the ad image is opening"; "work on all three surfaces" → "work on all three"; closing "with hands ready to carry the human signal on any of them" → "with the moment of use ready to carry the story on any of them".
Key Takeaways — rewrite to match: faces (human or animal) pre-attentive; gaze rule unchanged; expression-as-claim; crop to the focal point scaled by where the image lives + one subject, one read; the moment of use as a full peer device; side-by-side bullet stays with "thumbnail" removed.
Doc 3 — 03-bounded-curiosity.md
All "thumbnail" → "ad image"/"the ad".
"Hands mid-action on something you can't quite make out" — keep.
"Reaction-first — a face responding to something happening off-frame, so the reader wants to see what the face is seeing" → "Reaction-first — an expressive reaction to something happening off-frame — a face, or any subject visibly reacting — so the reader wants to see what the subject is seeing".
"Faces are natural partners here: an expressive reaction to something not fully shown is the classic feed-native curiosity image, the reaction-first device and a working face in one shot." → "Expressive subjects are natural partners here: a visible reaction to something not fully shown is the classic feed-native curiosity image — the reaction-first device and a working expression in one shot."
§"Calibrating Curiosity Across the Three Surfaces" → retitle "Calibrating Curiosity Down the Funnel"; bullet labels "Ad thumbnail" → "The ad", "Advertorial" → "The advertorial page"; in-body swaps; closing "wide open at the thumbnail" → "wide open at the ad".
Key Takeaways: terminology swaps only. (No Document 2 cross-refs exist in this doc.)
Doc 4 — 04-color-without-the-folklore.md
"a compelling face, a great hand-action shot" → "a compelling subject, a great moment-of-use shot".
"Large-scale thumbnail research" → "Large-scale ad-image research".
"(see Document 2, Faces, Gaze, and Hands)" → "(see Document 2, The Attention Devices)" (×1).
"Avoid black-and-white and heavily desaturated looks in thumbnails." → "…in ad images."; "a light-background thumbnail" → "a light-background ad image"; "If a candidate thumbnail" → "If a candidate ad image".
§"Calibrating Color Across the Three Surfaces" → retitle "Calibrating Color Down the Funnel"; "Ad thumbnail — every rule at maximum." → "The ad — every rule at maximum."; "Advertorial" → "The advertorial page"; "the surface is doing credibility work" → "the page is doing credibility work"; "do their heaviest lifting on this surface" → "do their heaviest lifting here"; "ties all three surfaces together" → "ties all three together".
Key Takeaways: "Across surfaces: enforce every rule hardest at the ad thumbnail" → "Down the funnel: enforce every rule hardest at the ad image"; "…in thumbnails" → "…in ad images"; other swaps.
Doc 5 — 05-the-ugc-default.md
"Real-looking people." paragraph → "Real-looking subjects." Keep the human content (ordinary faces, ordinary clothes, natural expressions) and add the neutral frame: the subject — person or pet — should look found, not cast; "The moment a person looks cast rather than found" → "The moment a subject looks cast rather than found". Cross-refs → "(see Document 2, The Attention Devices)" (×2).
All "thumbnail" → "ad image" (verify each).
§"Calibrating the Register Across the Three Surfaces" → retitle "Calibrating the Register Down the Funnel"; "Ad thumbnail — maximum authenticity, zero polish." → "The ad — maximum authenticity, zero polish."; "The coldest surface" → "The coldest reader"; "it's the surface where a single ad-tell" → "it's where a single ad-tell"; "If a candidate thumbnail" → "If a candidate ad image"; "Advertorial" → "The advertorial page"; "the surface is doing credibility work" → "the page is doing credibility work".
The plausibility test stays verbatim, untouched: "Could this photo plausibly have been taken by the person the story is about?"
Key Takeaways: swaps only.
Doc 6 — 06-congruence-one-idea-through-the-funnel.md
All "thumbnail" → "ad image"/"the ad" throughout.
"everything the earlier documents taught you about the three surfaces and their different jobs" → "…about the three places an image works and their different jobs"; "use the same image on every surface" → "use the same image everywhere".
Worked example: label "Thumbnail:" → "Ad image:"; woodworker content stays untouched.
ADD immediately after "The reader never once feels handed off to a different story.": "The same logic runs unchanged whatever the subject. A dog-toy angle about 'the bored dog who destroyed the couch' carries one idea — the dog, the toy, the peace afterward — through all three images the same way: the ad image opens on the aftermath, the advertorial shows the dog mid-play, the jump page shows the quiet living room. One family of images, one story."
§"Picture and Word Must Agree": "On any single surface" → "On any single page — and on the ad itself —"; "decoration is a wasted surface" → "decoration is a wasted image".
§"The Jarring-Shift Failure": "You can never judge an image by its own surface alone" → "…by its own page alone". Target verbatim: buyers waste days optimizing the thumbnail — the one thing that isn't broken — when the real leak is the jarring shift between surfaces. → buyers waste days optimizing the ad image — the one thing that isn't broken — when the real leak is the jarring shift between the ad and the page.
§"Each Surface Re-Expresses the Same Angle" → retitle "Each Image Re-Expresses the Same Angle"; "each surface has a different job" → "each image has a different job"; bullet "The thumbnail" → "The ad image".
§"Angle-First Discipline", target verbatim: decide the idea, then make every surface serve it. → decide the idea, then make every image serve it.
"campaigns that look fine on the surface" — idiomatic, keep (the only allowed "surface" hit in the series).
Key Takeaways: swaps; "Build purpose-fit images for each surface's job" → "…for each image's job"; "Judge the hand-off, not each surface alone" → "…not each image alone"; "Each surface re-expresses" → "Each image re-expresses".
Doc 7 — 07-the-seven-bans.md (terminology-only; compliance content stays human-specific)
Do not alter any ban's substance. "Whole people, in context, doing things", celebrity rules, body-part rules etc. remain exactly as written.
Cross-refs "(see Document 2, Faces, Gaze, and Hands)" → "(see Document 2, The Attention Devices)" (Ban 1 body, Ban 3 body — ×2).
§"Where the Bans Bite": "the thumbnail the network actually reviews and serves into the feed" → "the image the network actually reviews and serves into the feed"; "how the concept dials across surfaces" → "how the concept dials down the funnel"; "every surface a reader touches contributes" → "every page a reader touches contributes".
Ban 3 "the whole point of the faces work in this series" → "the whole point of the attention-device work in this series".
Key Takeaways: no other changes (verify no "surface"/"thumbnail" hits remain).
Doc 8 — 08-from-angle-to-image.md
§"Seven Documents, One Motion": "what each surface asks an image to do, how a thumbnail earns a glance, how faces and hands pull attention" → "what each of the three places asks an image to do, how an ad image earns a glance, how expressive subjects and the moment of use pull attention"; "no separate surface-calibration section, because the workflow itself stops at the surface and calibrates as it goes" → "no separate calibration section, because the workflow itself stops to ask where the image lives and calibrates as it goes".
§"Step 2 — Identify the Surface" → retitle "Step 2 — Decide Where the Image Lives". Body: "The same image can be exactly right on one surface and flatly wrong on another" → "…exactly right in one place and flatly wrong in another"; "The native ad thumbnail" → "The ad image"; "This is where the workflow visits the surfaces" → "This is where the workflow names the destination"; "calibrates to the surface's job" → "calibrates to that place's job"; "Get the surface wrong here" → "Get this wrong here"; "The full breakdown of each surface's job" → "The full breakdown of each job".
§"Step 3 — Choose the Subject": rewrite subject-neutrally per (A): reach for an expressive face — human or animal — when the story is about the feeling ("their relief, their skepticism, their quiet satisfaction — or the dog's ears-up delight"); gaze mechanics sentence stays. Reach for the moment of use when the story is about the doing — hands mid-task, first-person POV, or the subject itself mid-action; keep "An object sitting alone is a product shot; the same object in a hand is a moment" and the peer-not-fallback point. Parenthetical, target verbatim: (The craft rules for both devices — shoulders-up crops, one face, one hand-action, expression matched to the promise — live in *Document 2, Faces, Gaze, and Hands*.) → (The craft rules for both devices — crop to the focal point, one subject, one action, expression matched to the promise — live in *Document 2, The Attention Devices*.)
§Step 5, target verbatim: Now, and only now — angle set, surface chosen, subject and reveal decided — → Now, and only now — angle set, destination chosen, subject and reveal decided —
§Step 6: "thumbnail size, on a phone, in a feed" → "feed size, on a phone, in a feed"; cross-ref → "Document 2, The Attention Devices".
§Step 7: "ready for its surface" → "ready for the place it lives"; "Ship it to its surface and move on" → "Ship it and move on".
Key Takeaways: "angle → surface → subject → reveal → generate → glance test → compliance" → "angle → destination → subject → reveal → generate → glance test → compliance"; face/hands bullet → expressive face (human or animal) for feeling / moment of use (hands, first-person POV, or the subject mid-action) for doing; "phone-thumbnail size" → "feed size on a phone".
After editing — verification (all must pass)
grep -ric "thumbnail" docs/image-foundations/ → 0 total.
grep -riw "placement" docs/image-foundations/ → 0.
grep -rinw "surface\|surfaces" docs/image-foundations/ → exactly ONE hit: Doc 6's idiom "look fine on the surface". Anything else fails.
grep -rn "Faces, Gaze, and Hands" docs/image-foundations/ → 0.
grep -rin "shoulders up\|shoulders-up" docs/image-foundations/ → 0.
grep -rn "do I even need a person" docs/image-foundations/ → 0.
grep -rin "human element\|human signal" docs/image-foundations/ → 0.
Confirm the canonical device principle appears verbatim in Doc 2, and the plausibility test in Doc 5 is untouched verbatim.
Read Docs 1 and 2 end-to-end; confirm they flow as coherent teaching documents (no orphaned references, no broken seams).
Diff-review Doc 7: ban sections byte-identical except the listed edits.
Architect review (mandatory). Spawn a code-review/architect subagent with the eight edited files and the working-tree diff (includeGitDiff: true), tasked to verify: (1) every edit is surgical — the diff contains nothing beyond the changes listed above; (2) rewritten Docs 1 and 2 read as coherent, natively-written teaching documents; (3) no if-human/if-pet branching was introduced anywhere; (4) Doc 7's ban substance, Doc 5's plausibility test, and Doc 6's woodworker example are intact; (5) the canonical device principle is verbatim in Doc 2. Fix every finding and re-review until the architect passes it.
Regenerate the committed series PDFs via the existing PDF render pipeline, so the PDFs (including TOC entries reflecting Doc 2's new title) match the edited markdown. Verify the Doc 2 PDF title/TOC shows "The Attention Devices: Expressive Subjects and the Moment of Use".
Report a per-file edit summary plus the verification grep outputs.
If any verbatim target is not found, or any verification step fails, STOP and report rather than force the change.