=== BTS VIDEO TRAINING TRANSCRIPTS ===
The following are transcripts from Build Test Scale training videos.
These cover affiliate marketing, landing pages, traffic, tools, and strategies.
=======================================

---
Title: 1 - Overview of Affiliate Arbitrage Process (1)
Video ID: O4opNCFO1aNb0jy2

Welcome to affiliate arbitrage. Before we get into the click here, do this, do that, I want to step back and give you an overview of how this whole thing works. So let's start off with, what is affiliate arbitrage, and then what is our method? In general, affiliate arbitrage will look something like this. You have a traffic source where you run ads. You send clicks from those ads over to some landing page that you control, and then you send clicks from that landing page over to some sort of sales mechanism that the offer owner controls, and when someone makes a purchase from that sales mechanism on the offer, the offer owner pays you out commissions. Your arbitrage is the spread, the difference between what your ads cost you to run and what you make in affiliate commissions. So commissions dollars minus ad spend dollars equals your profit, and that's arbitrage. Arbitrage is essentially the gap, the spread between what you spend and what you make. And so this is in general what affiliate arbitrage looks like. Now, how is our method special? Well, we have a couple of different networks that you could run, but in general, they look something like this. We have some various traffic sources that are somewhat unique to us, email newsletters, some display news networks and other display type of advertising networks that you would place some sort of ad banners in. send those over to an advertorial of some other landing page and then onto an e-commerce page. This is how our media mavens network would work. And we put these display banners in newsletters and on display networks. We send clicks over to an advertorial, and this is an ad that is somewhat disguised as an editorial piece, a news piece. So it's called an advertorial. So it's kind of the scrunching of those two words, ad and editorial into advertorial. And we send clicks from that advertorial over to some sort of e-com product page. And when someone buys that device, you make commissions. Now, the other network that you could run on is ClickBank, and it looks very similar. Once again, the traffic sources are the same. The type of ads that we would run, these display ads or possibly native advertising within these networks. We would run those clicks over to another landing page. This one is typically called a jump page or a bridge page. It's very brief. It's not an entire story. And then you send clicks from that jump page or bridge page generally over to a VSL. And that's a video sales letter page where there will be a video that does the selling of the product. And when the person clicks on the add to cart and then purchases the product at the end of that VSL, you make commissions. And so this is affiliate arbitrage, and this is how it works for the two networks that we are currently set up on. If you are just starting off, getting your feet wet, new to this marketing world, you may want to start with media mavens. It may be a little lighter lift as we do give you a proven advertorial to start with. And if you go with the ClickBank route, you will need to come up with your landing pages that sit in the middle here to start. Also, another advantage of media mavens is it is our internal affiliate network and we are able to pay out flat CPA with no clawbacks, chargebacks, refunds against you. ClickBank will take money back from your commissions if someone refunds or chargebacks. They will claw back those commissions out of your account. And they are revenue share, not a CPA. So you share in the upside, but you also share in the downside on any refunds and chargebacks in ClickBank. Plus, everyone has access to the ClickBank affiliate network and only those within this program have access to the media mavens network. So you may want to start there, but this is how our process will work. In any case, either one you choose, you will be setting up some ads. These will look like display banners. We will run those on one or two or three different traffic sources. We'll just start with one. We'll send those to some sort of a landing page. From there, the clicks will go to some sort of a sales page. And when that person makes a purchase, you will earn commissions. All right, and that's it. It really is that simple. Place some ads, have a landing page set up that drives traffic over to a product page that is already created and optimized and you collect commissions on the backend. All right, in the next video, we'll dive into the technical what to do first in order to get your first campaign set up and off the ground.


---
Title: 2 - Choose Your Offer Network (1)
Video ID: 6Tx_nDw7XuZ0I6oB

Okay, in the last video, I gave you an overview of the affiliate arbitrage process and what that looks like in general, as well as what our method for affiliate arbitrage looks like specifically. Step one for you is to choose which offer network you want to run on. So when you are logged in here to your portal, you will come here to the resources, and you can see the second one down is affiliate networks. Click on that, and you will see you have two options. You have MediaMavens, which is our internal offers, and then you have ClickBank. And ClickBank is a solid affiliate network that has been around for a very, very long time. They're a third-party. We are not affiliated with them in any way. However, it is a very solid affiliate network that has been paying out commissions to affiliates for many, many years. They're a well-established, well-known player, and if you've been in affiliate marketing for any amount of time, you know about ClickBank. Should you choose to go with ClickBank, you can click the Register, and if you're already registered on ClickBank, then you can log in. ClickBank has a front page that looks something like this. Their marketplace looks like this, and this is where you will be able to find offers in many different niches. Typically, we'll run in health, and these are going to be sort by gravity high to low typically. In the next video, I will show you how to choose an offer on ClickBank, but for now, just know this is what ClickBank looks like, and these are the types of offers that you can run here. In MediaMavens, which is our internal network, you have a Learn About MediaMavens button. If you click that, it will take you over to our MediaMavens page. You can watch this video to learn more about MediaMavens, see some of the perks. Here you have a login button. In a later video, I'll show you exactly how to set up your MediaMavens account for the first time and how to log in. If you scroll down here, you will see all the MediaMavens offers. You can click here to expand these, and you'll see a number of different offers under these categories. These are constantly being added to and possibly removed, but mostly just added to, so these offers will be changing. The list will be changing. Potentially, the categories will be added to as well. And then on any of these, you can see the card under here. So if you click on, let's say, a beauty one, and you click on View Offer here, it's going to take you down to the offer card for this product. In this case, Heat Haven. I've already set up my affiliate account, so I already have my URL here, but this is where you'd be able to grab your affiliate link for any of the products in MediaMavens. But this is where you would look through MediaMavens offers and choose whether you wanted to run on MediaMavens or whether you wanted to run on ClickBank. But again, to get to the affiliate networks, hover over Resources. It is the second tab here, and that will take you to the choices here for either MediaMavens or for ClickBank, and you can choose which network you wish to run on.


---
Title: 3 - Logging Into Media Mavens For The First Time (1)
Video ID: PTTFp9jkxF9M3igr

In this video, I'm going to show you how to log into MediaMavens for the first time and get your account all set up so that you can find and promote your offers. If you go to resources, the second tab down is affiliate networks. Click on that, and it will open up your affiliate networks, and you'll see MediaMavens here. Click on this green Learn About MediaMavens, and now you will be here. It says, Welcome to MediaMavens. You can watch this video at the top to learn about your MediaMavens account. You scroll down a little bit. You'll see some of the perks of this. And then below here, you will see the MediaMavens offers. And so you can see a number of offers here that you're able to view. And we have the commissions, so this is the list. If you click on any of these, it will take you down to the offer down here. Now, going back up to the top, we scrolled past it, but at the bottom of this MediaMavens perks list is a big green login button. So you'll want to click that to go to MediaMavens. And once that opens up, fill in your first name, last name, email, a time zone, and language. Any cookies here, of course, accept the cookies, and then next. On this next page, enter your address. Click next. Additional information. This is completely optional. You do not need to put anything in here. You can simply click finish, and now you will be into your MediaMavens portal. You will not have to complete that process again. Once you've done that first onboarding process, once your first login, the next time you click this login button, it will take you directly to the main dashboard here, as you can see. And in the next video, I'll show you where to find your offers and links.


---
Title: 4 - Choosing Your Media Mavens Product To Promote (1)
Video ID: 3LatRiET7o2CGI2d

In this video, I'm going to show you how to find and choose a MediaMavens offer to promote. As we previously mentioned, if you hover over resources and then come down to the second affiliate networks here, you'll see MediaMavens. Click learn more about MediaMavens big green button. It will take you to the MediaMavens overview page where you have a video where you can learn more. You can read about the perks of MediaMavens. This is where you can log in. Now, to find an offer to promote, I suggest that you stay right on this page. You can click and expand these to see the offers that are in each of these categories. Notice that these offers will be added to and the categories may be added to. They're constantly testing out and adding new products here. So take a look through the list. You'll notice that you have the specific offer cards laid out below, but you do not have to scroll down through them. If you see a name and a description that you are drawn to, for example, Slumber Seal, the wireless sleep symphony, and that piques your interest here, you can go ahead and click on view offer and that will scroll you down the page to see the offer card here where you have an image of that offer page gives you an overall description of what the thing is. You have a link here that you can click. That will open up the sales page in a new tab for you to see exactly what the offer page looks like that you'll be promoting. And you can see the affiliate commission. You can see how much it costs for the consumer to purchase one of these items and you can grab your affiliate link right here. As long as you have logged in and set up your MediaMavens account the first time, you will have a valid affiliate link under any of these. If you want to go back to the top and click this little arrow and that will handily take you right back up to the top and then you can come in and look at any others of these products that you wish to. So do pay attention. Notice the commission varies on these products. The price of the products varies quite a bit. And so find one that resonates with you, that you think you have a good angle and good handle on that you can promote and that you would feel comfortable advertising. There are lots of great products in here to promote. So find one that you like that looks good to you, that either you are in the target demographic for that so that you feel you understand it, you might be a potential customer for the product or you know people who are potential customers for the product or you are familiar with the market and you feel like you have a good chance of being able to sell that type of product. Choose that product. There are many, many great options to choose from. And in the next video, I will show you how to find your affiliate links for a MediaMavens offer.


---
Title: 5 - How To Get Your Media Mavens Offer Affiliate Link (1)
Video ID: z_ynpxUgng8J9wqp

In this video, I'll show you how to get your affiliate links for your MediaMavens product. When you are here on the MediaMavens page, you have a couple of different options for getting this. I recommend that you stay right here on this page. Once again, you can go through the categories and find the product here. You can click on View the Offer. When you come down to the offer card, you'll notice that your affiliate link is right here. And notice that the affiliate code here is on the end. These letters and numbers on the end here are what matches to your account and give you credit for the purchase. So you can get this right here, right on this page without leaving. However, if you wish to go over to MediaMavens and click Login and open up your account on the dashboard here, you will see that you do have options for links. Ignore this MediaMavens here. That's just a placeholder. But you can see that all the others are in here. And we've got Skeeter Strike. And now you can see the ref code on the end here matches exactly what it did over here in the portal for this offer. It's the same exact link and same exact ref code. So I recommend staying right here on this MediaMavens offers page. There's no reason to go over to your MediaMavens account, but you can get it over here as well using this drop down and then copying it out of here if you wish.


---
Title: 6 - Choosing Your ClickBank Product To Promote (1)
Video ID: 96eOXVw__AsKdkAd

In this video, we're going to talk about how to find and select a top offer on ClickBank to promote. This will be focused more on the technical aspect of how to go about doing that rather than on the philosophy of what type of product to pick. You have multiple options for how to get there. If you are logged into your ClickBank Marketplace like this, your ClickBank account, you will see on the left bar Affiliate Marketplace. You can click on that link and it will take you to a page that looks like this. Probably going to want to click on Top Offers here or Top Offers here. Now, I am not certain why, but for some reason, these seem to open up different sets of top offers. This link opens up this set with Mitalin at the top. You can see then PrimeBiome, then Prostovive. And if I go back and I click on this one, you can see that Mitalin is not at the top, but instead PrimeBiome is listed at the top, then AquaSculpt, then Prostovive, Sumatra, Slim Belly. I am not sure exactly why those two top offer links are different. I do not know. But I will tell you, this one gives everything with the current highest ranking gravity score, rank high to low, typically is going to be the highest gravity score here. And so you can see Mitalin is at the top, PrimeBiome, Prostovive, AquaSculpt, ProDentim, The Genius Wave, Nitric Boost. Now, another way that you can see top offers right now is that's kind of all time, but you can search for ClickBank affiliate marketplace and you have a couple of options here, ClickBank or affiliates. I don't recommend going to view marketplace as that will try to get you to create an account. But you can go to the affiliates here. This link is good. ClickBank.com forward slash affiliates here. So in the address bar, ClickBank.com forward slash affiliates. And then if you hover over this affiliates, click on that. And then down here, go to ClickBank top offers. This is going to be a more recent rundown of the best offers. So here this is for April 2025. So I just released this on April 4th. And here you can see there's some categories, supplements, weight loss, survival. You can just scroll down here. Feel free to watch this video, Health and Fitness Supplement, Nutra offers. This is probably what you are going to be going after. And so here you can see they've got the top seven listed out here. PrimeBiome, Sumatra Slim Belly, AquaSculpt, ProDentim, Prostovive, Alka Water DIY, and Glucotonic. And so number one for April is PrimeBiome. And then we have the Sumatra Slim Belly, AquaSculpt. Any of these would be fantastic offers to choose. ProDentim is also a strong offer. It's got a good company behind it. They've changed the product and updated the VSL and they're always working to improve that. Prostovive. Now these are the top ones. And any of these top three here, certainly for beauty and weight loss, would be fantastic offers to choose. You can go with any of those. Another resource to look at this is CBSnooper.com. And CBSnooper will allow you to look at all kinds of stats on these. And just Google CBSnooper PrimeBiome and top ClickBank products here on CBSnooper. And this will get us right into it. So you can certainly sign up, you know, register for the free trial. You can see stuff for free on here. There will be some ads and things like that. But this can be helpful. You can see where they are at. So these are the top products here again listed. They've got the gravity and the movement. And so you can see, you know, how much they've gone up or down recently. There are at their peak. Yeah, there will be ads if you're here on the free version. And that's OK. But you can see offers that are at their peak here. They're at the highest they've ever been. So that might be an indication that they are going up hot here. Mitalin is still hot, though it is, it has dropped in gravity some, but it's still very strong. PrimeBiome has dropped a little bit, but still going strong and up there. We can look over here at AquaSculpt. You do have to be approved. But down here, you can see the gravity score over the last seven days. It's been on an uptrend, so a little bit of a downswing right this moment, but it's been on an up up swing trajectory. Overall rank. It's fine. That's good. It's holding pretty steady. Earnings over the last seven days are still increasing here. So that's good. And up here in this table at the right, you can see quick added to ClickBank Friday, January 10th, 2025. So it's only three months old. So this offer hasn't been on ClickBank very long. That's great. The gravity is 117, which is good. Highest gravity was 118. So it's not very far off of its highest gravity. So even though it's gone down to 1.55 on the gravity here, I wouldn't be concerned with that. So just some quick stats to be able to look at and see where it's at. It's a relatively new offer. It's moved up the rankings. It's doing well. Multiple places. You can see it's listed here as one of the top three here. A newish offer. We could do the same thing looking at PrimeBiome and Sumatra Slim Belly Tonic. Once you've started to narrow in on an offer, let's say you like the initial look of this PrimeBiome, you can check out the affiliate page here by clicking here on this link. I've opened it in a new tab just so I don't lose that other one. Take a look through the affiliate resources here. You can, of course, get your hop link, check out the VSL here, look at what they say about their product, check out their traffic restrictions, make sure that you will be abiding by all terms of the product, that type of thing. And that CB snooper also usually has a link to the affiliate tools here. Open that up and it usually takes you to the exact same place here. Same affiliate resources page, just a couple of different ways to get to it. And then you take a look through and just make sure that it is the product that you would like to promote. That's how you find and choose an offer on ClickBank.


---
Title: 7 pillars new
Video ID: pJ2nVa4UGcg_sPU9

Welcome, and thank you for choosing to embark on this journey with me. I'm the BTS team, the founder and CEO of BTS Media, and I'm thrilled to have you here. Over the past 20 years, I've immersed myself in the digital marketing industry, navigating its intricate pathways and learning its secrets. I've experienced the peaks of success, the valleys of failure, and everything in between. Now I'm here to share the strategies that truly work. In this training, we're going beyond surface-level knowledge. We're dissecting the industry, breaking it down into actionable steps, and revealing the essential elements that make a profitable digital business. With the right guidance, you can navigate this landscape with confidence and precision. That's why I created Build Test Scale, to equip you with the knowledge, skills, and strategies you need to thrive. Success doesn't happen by accident. It follows a predictable system. I've broken this system into seven key pillars, each representing a vital component of your business. By mastering these pillars, you're setting yourself up for long-term success. Let's explore each one in detail, starting with the business model. The first pillar of a successful digital business is the business model. Choosing the right one can make or break your success. After testing countless models, one stands out for its simplicity, predictability, and scalability. Affiliate marketing, specifically affiliate arbitrage. This strategy leverages paid media to drive sales with the goal of spending less on ads than you make in commissions. Affiliate arbitrage eliminates many of the challenges traditional business owners face. No need to build products. No need to handle customer service. No need to hold inventory. Best of all, you can track your ROI in real time so you always know how much profit you're making. The second pillar is choosing the right market. Over the years, I've tested nearly every niche imaginable. Two categories stand out for their profitability and scalability. Trendy gadgets and health and wellness. These markets have high demand, consistent buyer interest, and allow for massive scalability. Understanding your audience is key to success. And if there's one demographic that holds massive buying power, it's baby boomers. Despite misconceptions, boomers are active online, spend more than younger generations, and are eager for solutions that improve their lifestyle. This is a goldmine for affiliates. Traffic is the lifeblood of your business. And the best way to scale quickly is through email marketing. Instead of building lists from scratch, we buy ad placements inside high-performing newsletters, allowing us to tap into pre-existing audiences who are ready to buy. The key to success isn't just getting traffic, it's knowing how to scale it profitably. We start with email sponsorships, testing creatives and optimizing campaigns. Then, once we find winners, we scale up with dedicated emails where conversions skyrocket. In such a competitive space, having an edge is essential. That's why we provide our mentees with exclusive tools and automation, from the BTS Concierge who handles the technical work for you, to our proprietary BTS Media software suite designed for scaling profits faster than ever before. No strategy, tool, or mentor will help if you don't commit. The final pillar is the commitment. Staying consistent, testing, refining, and scaling. If you stay the course and take action, success is inevitable. Now that we've gone through all seven pillars, the next step is putting them into action. Review the materials, start applying what you've learned, and most importantly, get involved in our BTS community and weekly coaching calls. This is where true transformation happens. For a more comprehensive look into each of these seven pillars, you can read the full lesson below this video.


---
Title: Hero Shots CB Training
Video ID: mnXnIt0RXtAMNc2l

All right, let's do some hero shots. What is a hero shot again? It's this image right here. Now, you, you don't really need a super specific size for this. I think this is like every template in Flexi is going to be different with the hero shot size. What I found is it's more the, the aspect ratio or the, the look. It's a, it's a rectangle, right? So just make sure it's big enough to where you don't want like a 100 by 50 tiny rectangle because it will blow up to the size that you're looking at. You wanna make sure it's going to be a decent size initially. And so I'm going to recommend 800 by 500 because that's what I use for all my stuff. And in GIFster, which is where we're going to go next, that is one of the settings. So, all right, so we're promoting Java burn, right? And Java burn for those of you who don't know, it's just all about a coffee hack or espresso or a homebrew, cold brew kind of kind of hack. And those are the types of images that we can use in our banners and then also on our landing pages there for the hero shots. And so what I wanna do is use GIFster to find some hero shots. And so I'm gonna say coffee hack. All right. And so you can actually watch the video to see if it's going to get some like photogenic shots here that you can use. What I'm looking for are videos that don't have a lot of texts, not a lot of branding, not a lot of people in them, but more just like the thing that I type in, like the coffee hack. Sometimes I'll put like coffee filter hack or pouring, pouring into coffee filter, like something specific that I wanna see used as a GIF. So this one has a lot of, if you scroll through here on the bar down here, it's got a lot of text all throughout it. So I'm just not going to use it. We might look at this one and then just scroll and you can see this one, it looks good. It's got a lot of shots, but they're formatted funny. They're not, they're not the full rectangular kind of picture, right? This looks more like a Facebook type of post. So again, you just gotta go through and find the ones that make sense for, for the hero shot. Now that looks like it's just a coffee shot vibe kind of a thing. Let's see. And what you can always do, and, and this is what I've done previously, just so we don't have to wait for gift search to run its course. I went to YouTube. I searched for coffee hack. We can do this coffee hack. Right. Coffee loophole. And you can see this is a vertical video, so we don't want that. Coffee hack for cholesterol. Not a whole lot of good shots in there. Ooh, there's some good ones in here. Okay. So what I would do is I would click on this video. It's a survey, but here, let me skip this. Pause it. You would grab this URL, copy it, go back into Gifster, paste it in up here, and then hit enter. Do you want to add this video to the queue or create a GIF from it? I'm gonna add it to the queue so it adds it into your queue. So you can go out and do that as many times as you want. So you're probably gonna have better luck going to YouTube first, finding the video that you want and then bringing it in as opposed to searching right here. But do that with as many videos as you want, five, 10 videos. And what you're really looking for are just like a couple good solid shots per video. That can be turned into GIFs and I'm gonna show you how to do that here. And so what you'll do then is if you're, you got one in the queue, right? You come down here to the bottom and you see 800 by 500 down here. Let me see if I can zoom in. You'll see that it's already selected by default. So you can close it off and then select the dimensions. Here's some preset dimensions. The 800 by 500 is for the landing page hero shot. All right, so we're gonna be making GIFs here in just a second out of these exact dimensions. And that's the perfect one for the landing page hero shot. All of these others are for different sizes like 300 by 170. That's a 300 by 250 banner. The 400 by 250 is the 970 by 250 banner. The 970 by 450 is the 970 by 550 banner. It's a big rectangle, right? So we have these preset sizes that we are commonly used, but since we're doing the landing page hero shot, let's do 800 by 500. This select timeframe is the length of the GIF. The longer the GIF, the larger the file size. And we need to stay under two megabits on per file for, for these. And they're already huge. They're 800 by 500. And so when you're doing the big ones, I would say one second, two second GIFs. I'm gonna say one second. Okay. And then process queue. GIF generation in progress. And so it's gonna redirect you here. Let me zoom out to the download page and it's gonna start doing its thing. All right. It's gonna make 483 GIFs. So what it does is for, you chose one second GIFs. So for every second in the video of the entire video, it's gonna make a GIF. So it takes, takes a little time when you're doing 483. Um, but I did several down here already before the call, just so we'd have some stuff to look at. This would probably take 15 minutes. That's not like you have to wait hours, 15, 20 minutes. This thing would be done. Um, but let's go ahead and look at some of these others that I did here. So like this first one, 800 by 500. Just click on it. And I didn't, I think I did two second GIFs for all of these, not one second. So these are all going to be two seconds, but we're just gonna scroll until we find ones that we feel like would make good landing page hero shots. And so I don't like using people's faces. I don't like getting text in them. I like photogenic stuff, right? Photogenic. It just makes you really curious as to what it is. Like this one right here. I love it. It's like, what do we have there? What's in her hand? I'm gonna, you click on that little download button. It downloads it. So that'll be one of the hero shots that we test. And you want to be selective here. You don't need a ton. I would go for 10 probably to start 10 hero shots. And so if you're looking at like a dozen videos, you know, you may only just take one or two from each one unless there's just a video that's just crushing it and you got all 10 in one video that that sometimes happens, but. Let's see what else. All of these are very similar. Okay. I love it. Pouring the coffee into the filter. That'll work for me. Oh, Yeah, and uh, this one I actually downloaded earlier, so I already got it, but I can download it again. I love this. It just looks super tasty and it's interesting. All right, so we want to go back to downloads to then look at the next video. Um, do we have to worry about like the people on the video coming back after us someday and say, gosh, you didn't get my permission to, to use me in that video? Do you have any concerns around that or should we watch out for that? Don't use people in the video. Yeah, don't use their faces. Don't use their names. No, never do that. Thank you. Yeah. Stuff like this, though. I love it. Look at this. That is so good. I'm gonna download that. I think it's perfect. Yeah, no, if there's branding of any kind, no, don't use any of that. Stay away from all that. Awesome. Thanks. I downloaded this one earlier. He's stirring. I kind of like that. There's just not, I don't know. There's too much like gray, so I'm not even gonna do that. Uh, let's go back. We'll get another one. Whoa. Some good ones in here. Um, notice though, how they have this logo on the top left of every single one. So this is one where If I loved all the shots or a couple of the shots and I just really wanted to test them out, and it looks like I will. These are so good. Um, you can download it, and then what you do is you upload it over here. You see all these options here in, in the on the sidebar. You can crop an image. You can then resize it. You can edit out frames if there's like a jump cut that's just the transition is too fast and it kind of hurts your eyes to look at, but the rest of the GIF is awesome. Like you can remove frames. Um, if the file size ends up being too big, you can get into edit frames and then like remove every other frame. So it just speeds up the GIF, but it, it keeps the quality or the, the, the pop, the impact of the GIF. All these tools are really helpful. So. Let's say we wanted to use. What else we got? This is just interesting to me. I don't know what this is. This guy is doing. I don't know what this, it looks like a tasty drink in a sandbox. Doesn't it? So I'm going to download it and we're gonna try it. Uh, all right. Oh yeah
 Really, your numbers are as good as the effort that you put into the build phase, okay? I understand. Yeah. So it does take a little while to get set up, but once you get going, like, I can do, I mean, somebody comes to me, one of these reps, this offer's crushing it, or better yet, it's going live tomorrow, it's made by this and this proven advertiser, they have all these winners in the past, it's going live tomorrow, it's gonna be gangbusters, get it. Okay, I have four hours to create the materials for it. I can do the whole thing in four hours and the materials be, like, bomb. They're awesome. So you get proficient at it, you get a lot better and you get to where you really are able to really just do all this stuff like the back of your hand. Not to sidebar too much, but this truly is one of those businesses where you put in the work initially, you're climbing up the mountain, just like any learning curve you go through with any business. You get to the top and you look out the other end, there's nothing, there's no mountains or anything. There's just this plane, there's, it's smooth skies, just crystal blue skies across the other end and you go down and then you're out. You've had all your light bulb moments go up, go off once you, with that trek up to the top. Other businesses, it's like you climb to the top and you look out and there's this bigger mountain. There's, you get to the top of that one, there's another bigger mountain. This business is so simple, but you do have to, you know, build the skills initially. You gotta learn them, right? your BTS coach, is there a better time of day to trigger the start for our testing of our ad banners and such? Does that play a effect into anything? If you were running on network traffic, yeah, absolutely. There's all kinds of rules, but not here. Okay, thank you. Yeah. It, it's not, it's not emails. It's not on the publishers that I have brought in to allow you guys to run on. Like, they're proven publishers. I've used them for years. The traffic is good during the day. The traffic is good during the night. The traffic is day. Monday is good. Monday through Friday. The traffic is good Saturday, Sunday. It's just good quality traffic. So. Okay, thank you for the clarification. Yeah. Whoops. Where was I? What were we doing? Oh, PixelPress. Okay. So if you notice, there's a play button on your call to action, your hero shot here. Uh, we always wanna include a play button. And there's a template in PixelPress that has the play button. And so everybody has this templates folder in PixelPress. You just click into it. And what you will come up and do is search for CTA, which is call to action CTA. And I think you will see template 800 by 500 animated CTA for pages. And so I'll just click on that one. And we have a bunch of fitness weight loss girls in here. I'll just delete most of these. Actually, you probably need to know how to do this. So this is what you'll see. What you wanna do is you wanna click on the image and the play icon will disappear. That's fine. That's what you wanna do. And then come over here on the left and then tick this radio box uh that's above all the others. And so it will select all of them. And you'll want to deselect one, just the top one. Okay. So all are selected, but the top one. And then you click this trash can icon right here, the white one. Okay, so it'll delete everything except the one. And then we're gonna hit save. Just the easiest way I've found to do this. All right, and so now, um, with the image still clicked, you wanna go over here to this blue button that says new image. And we're gonna choose the files and we're gonna upload our 800 by 500 banners that we got from Gifster. Um, let's see. Resized. 800 by 500. Yep. And cropped. I don't think I resized that one. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. I don't know how many we had, but that's it. That's good. Then you just hit open and then upload. All right, and now we don't need this fitness girl in here, so we can click the black trash can icon beside it. All right. So the white one is for everything and the black one is just for that specific image. All right, and so now we wanna save it. And you'll see the play button is now over every single one of these. You click the eyeball beside each one, you get to see them individually here. All right. So last thing that I usually do is I'll go back, click that back button right here. And you'll notice there's a border size of one around it. You can either increase it to like 10 to make it look a little cool like that, or what I typically do is I'll just put zero, so there's no border around it. And then I'll save it. And then we want to generate. See this big blue generate button up here? Click on generate. Zip file, file size. We're probably gonna remove this option, so I would just put that at 200 megabits. Hit generate banners. And we'll just do this real time here. Shouldn't take very long. So this is the second pass through where it's just encoding a little bit more. Should be about 15, 20 seconds. Cool. All right, and so here you have two options. You can optimize or you can download the zip. We don't wanna download yet. We gotta optimize. Because the file sizes for these are gonna be pretty big, and we need to get them under two megabits if we can. So click on optimize. And we're gonna optimize for flexi. Optimize for under two megabits. Start compression. And as you can see, one of them is already in the right size because it's under two megabits. And then we have others, this beast right here. It's 6098, so six megabits. So what I like to do is compress the largest one, which is this one right here. So go over here to compress. And the reason I do that is because the settings that we're about to apply to this specific banner, we can apply to all the others. So if we can get this specific one down to a decent file size, it's definitely gonna get the others down to a file size because they weren't as big. All right, and so what we need to do is take the frame rate down. I would go to probably, let's just try eight to start. And then the lossiness, I would go to like 250. It's usually where I start. And then you hit generate optimized image. What's lossy? I can't intelligently answer you. I'm sorry. I'd have to Google it. I know the frame rate is what will drop the file size the most. I think lossyness, what it does look wise is it makes it a little more grainy. And you'll see here, when I generate optimized image, once it finishes generating, look at the image on the left here. Here's the before. The after here in just a moment should look a little more grainy, but it doesn't affect the quality. See that? It didn't. It doesn't even look more grainy to me, honestly. And it went down to 3500 kilobits. So we're still not quite there. I'd probably take this down to like six frames and maybe like, let's just say 325 and try it again. Generate optimized image. And I'll show you a trick here. So let's say you don't want to remove any more frames because it starts messing with the effect. And like this, you're still not under two megabits. That's fine. Keep it, just apply to all. Hit this blue apply to all. So it's gonna take those exact settings, apply it to all of them that need to be compressed. Apply to all. So there's five of the six that need to be compressed. And I'll show you what to do here after it finishes. You can tell I've done all this a few times. Yep. In my whole career. Affiliate arbitrage. Definitely like the fact you new traffic sources and so picky. Like we have to do all these banners and put a little branding on it and all that stuff we had to do before. Right, yeah. Borders and branding. Yeah. Yeah. Well, y'all will really like the responsiveness too. I can't wait to see it. Yeah, it's legit. Hey, quick question for you. Is the new traffic, are they gonna have to, are you gonna have to have your own branding on the ad banners and stuff? Or is that not a thing? No. Okay. They don't care about anything other than just grotesque imagery. What will cause subscribers to complain the most is that. Like, you know, showing too much skin, showing disgusting big bellies. If you're promoting weight loss, stay away from all that. You don't need that to, it usually puts people off anyway. It kind of puts them in the wrong mindset as they click. You know, it's better to show boiling lemons. That looks tasty. Oh yeah, boom. You know, it may not get quite as high of a click-through rate, but the conversion rate will show for it. All right, let's see. Here we go. Ignore that message. We're gonna get the devs to remove it. Just hit got it. And then hit back. Okay, so it didn't compress all of them white to under two megabits. And you might, this might, you might run into
 Any time to create 250 pages. It's really quick with metric mover. It's like that, but this is where you win. You got to do the research. You got to either use other cool copywriting tools that will give you good and hard hitting copy. You got to really think through your imagery, you know, the, the, the inputs, right? The things that you give our tools. They, they need to be well thought out and you just get better. It just takes practice. You, you form an eye for what makes a good headline, what makes a good image, you know. We have trainings on image composition and I think I have a training that's online somewhere. I think it's in the community. I know Robin, I don't know if she's on the call, but she's got this whole list of all these things that we've done that, and that's one of them where I did a whole Friday call where it was just me going through Gifster images, like hundreds of images. Yeah, Christy, you were there. You remember that? And I was just pointing out the ones that were photogenic that I felt like I would use and eventually people got it. I felt like, you know, like at first they were confused as to why I'm choosing images that I am, but I think people eventually got it. There, there are some rules to follow and selecting images, but anyway, that was a really long answer. So. Well, so all of those will go through the testing and then you'll just pick which ones work the best. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You'll let the data tell you, you, you won't lean on your emotion. The data will tell you which ones perform the best. Okay. Thank you. Yep. Now I got to remember where I was here. Hold on. Let's see. Well, let's see. The saying is he who tests the most wins the most. Makes the most. That's what I say. Okay. Test the most makes the most. Okay. That's right. Oh yeah. I was going to show y'all back into Gifster. So Gifster share. Okay. So we, we ended up with some hero shots that were too big file size wise. So what I would do is go to edit frames in Gifster. Choose your file. CTA play, which is what we just rendered out. Can y'all see anything that I'm doing right here with my folder? Yeah. Oh, you can't. Yes. Okay. Weird. Weird. I'll just take the first one, CTA play one. All right. Okay, so click on the image. Just give it. Okay. So if you were close, like we were, we were close. We could just remove like five, seven of these. Do it that way. And we could do it that way. Like maybe you liked the pouring and the ice turning the color more than you did the, the clear part. And so I would just take the lead, the first seven and then generate it out. And it's going to give you a much smaller file size. I know this says 2968, but you would have to run it through pixel press again to compress it further. But what I would do instead of doing that is just come up here and you see this skip every other frame. I probably need to reset and then skip every other frame. So every other one is going to be skipped and then hit generate GIF. And let's just take a look at it. See what it looks like. I love it. It speeds it up, right? It just removed every other one. It just sped it up a bit. I would still totally use this over the other one. So just so you can get into the habit of like moving fast and not focusing so much on getting the perfect hero shot, right? Like what, what makes the perfect hero shot? Why would the other one be better than this one? You got to test it. That's what tells you what's perfect or not. But this is just as where it is to test as the other. So I would just take this. So you just click it to download and there you go. Download. And then I would do that with the second one. Second one. No, this one doesn't look very long at all. Let's see what skipping out every other frame looks like. That's actually not bad either. I would so use that. So we're going to click it. Let's do the third one. Skip every other frame. Generate. Yep. We're just going to use it. Oh, now this one has a bit that we probably need to cut out there. So what I would probably do is reset and, oh you see, it's just that one frame right there. That's got to go. And then I would hit skip every other and generate because you don't want that little flicker that really makes it hard to look at. You don't want people to have a hard time looking at your image. So I'll click on it, save it. We'll do number five. Every other frame. Perfect. Six every other frame. There we go. So now we have our pixel press play buttons. We need to bring them into Flexi. All right, in Flexi, left navigation, you see media storage. Click on that. And then I would click on this folder plus icon to create a new folder. I'll put whatever you want to say, it's just for you so you know what it is. Double click into the folder and then upload. And those are the ones that pixel press gave us that were a little big. And so we're going to go to the desktop and then choose CTA play 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Here we go. Upload it right there into the media storage. And now we'll go back to our website. So click on sites, websites, the cutting edge 4.1, the latest version as of recording this. Scroll down, click into what we were just building. And let me go out a little bit and click on the image here. And then on the right, you'll see image options. There's where like the exact path to that image is located. You want to click on the image icon to the right of it. Go into your new coffee folder and then select the one that you want to use for your base Flexi page. We call it all right. So I'm going to click on that guy. I'm going to copy the link. I'm gonna get out of this. I'm gonna replace this link with what we just copied. Paste it in. There we go. I'm gonna save it. Publish it. Gonna go up here. Refresh. And there it is. Any questions before I move on? You have to do that for each one. No, no. You just do this one time. Metric mover makes it really simple for you to upload all your other hero shots and your headlines. I really want everybody to get the most out of all the things that we have to offer. All the tools, our team, the process, everything, right? And so I'm just going to give you what you need. You know, it may feel overwhelming right now, but I mean, I can do the whole thing in four or five hours. You can absolutely get to where you're proficient in these tools and do the same thing. It may take leaning on the concierge and then doing maybe a little of yourself, leaning on the concierge, you know, but you will eventually be able to do it just as fast as me. So I think it's just better to go ahead and just have everybody launch out of the gate with tons of split tests. So because you will always find that it's true that you're looking for that one thing, the diamond in the rough, there's going to be like one of your hundred landing pages that does it for you. You know, one, maybe two banners out of all that you test that do it for you. And this is why people just don't have success, very much success in affiliate marketing is because they're testing two or three banners or going to one landing page and then they're complaining and not understanding the core of digital marketing, which is split testing. It's really what you got. You got to split test all kinds of ideas unless you're just some kind of absolute genius and you hit it out of the park every time, but never met him. Thank you guys. Have a good night. Y'all too. Two and a half hours. We'll see you all next week.


---
Title: Add Domain To Flexy
Video ID: zJy2OLDDtuErBe0k

In this video, I'm going to show you how to add a custom subdomain and domain to your Flexi account. If you are here at your sites or a dashboard, it doesn't matter, you should see settings down here at the bottom left. Click on settings, and then if you need to scroll down, you can scroll down until you see domains. Click on domains. Once you are in here, if you have not set up any domains, you will see no domain found. You want to click on connect domain. We want to connect a domain to a funnel website right here. This website is what we want, so we're going to go connect here. We're going to put in a domain. If you are running health stuff on a consumer watchdog, then we want to use a consumer watchdog domain. If you're running gadget stuff on the cutting edge, then we'll use a cutting edge domain. If you are running something else or on some other template and we have a different website brand and name, we'll have a new domain for that as well. That'll be updated in the training, but for now, most of us are probably running on the consumer watchdog. Now, you want to put in a unique something for your subdomain, so this is your subdomain. Do not type this exactly like I have typed it in. You will put in something unique to you that you think would be good to have in front of this. So this is unique to you. You want it to be different from everyone else. It'll keep your pages straight, keep your tracking straight, all of those type of things. So do not write in your subdomain. This is for an example. Example, your subdomain. So whatever name you're going to choose for your subdomain .consumerwatchdog.io. This part should be exactly as it appears. Consumerwatchdog.io. Your subdomain part is the unique part to you. That's what you choose. So come up with something here. Your subdomain. .consumerwatchdog.io. Once you enter that, you click continue, and here you'll see this. Don't click this continue button. I know that's appealing. Instead, come here to add record manually. Click on this boring little gray link that says add record manually, and then simply click on this verify records. You don't need to do anything here other than click verify records, and it will work on adding your domain and subdomain and verifying the records, and there's really nothing else that you need to do. It will do this for you, and you can just wait until this finishes, and once it does, it will disappear, and then you can connect this to a website here. So we can choose on website and then click here, and this was your name, live website, run campaigns here. We named it so we would recognize it. We're going to connect it here to our consumer watchdog website, and so now we know this doesn't matter too much, but this is the homepage, so I'm just going to choose the homepage for the default name. It doesn't really matter. Then click proceed to finish. All right, and once it is done, you will see in your domains here, you have your consumerwatchdog.io with the subdomain, your subdomain. Once again, which shouldn't be this exact your subdomain. It should be some unique subdomain to you .consumerwatchdog.io. All right, you've got that one. It's connected to a website, and then if you wish to run a cutting edge instead, I'll show you the domain that we would connect for that one. Again, we're going to connect it for this, and domain, once again, your subdomain. This does not have to be the same as the consumer watchdog subdomain, just some unique subdomain to you .thecuttingedge.today. So again, your subdomain right here, this is the unique part to you. This is the part that you will always enter only if you are setting up a website on the cutting edge template. If you were setting up the website on the consumer watchdog, that was in the first part of the video, use the consumer watchdog URL. If you are running gadgets and you are running on the cutting edge template, then you will use this cutting edge URL. If we have another template rolled out, there may be a new domain for that. You would use that domain and some unique subdomain to you. It does not really matter what this is. It just needs to be something that is unique to you, so do not type in please Y-O-U-R-S-U-B-D-O-M-A-I-N. Something else. Use something unique to you. Once again, process is the same. Continue, just verify this is the subdomain you want, and click this boring gray link, and click verify records, and wait up to 30 seconds to make sure that it verifies the records. It is the same process for adding any of the domains that we have available for the templates. Right now, we have a cutting edge template, and you can add any subdomain onto .thecuttingedge.today, and you can add for the consumer watchdog template any subdomain onto consumerwatchdog.io. In this case, I didn't set up a website for the cutting edge. I just showed you how to add that, so I'm just going to proceed to finish. You can also add this from within the websites itself, so you can see it's just not connected, and that's fine because we are running on the consumer watchdog in this account for health offers. Okay, that ends the video on how to add a domain with a subdomain to your Flexi account. In the next video, I will cover how to connect the domain to your website if you've already added the domain, and like this, you have a cutting edge today domain added, but it's not connected to any websites or products. I will show you how to do that from within the website settings. This ends this video on adding domains to your Flexi account.


---
Title: Blitz - Ad Banner Edge
Video ID: VSXnSJkbCf24JQC6

So I'll just read this. Ads need to be tested more than any other part of a marketing funnel. As the first point of contact with potential customers, ads must capture attention, generate interest, and compel action within seconds. And this is really important, and I don't think we've emphasized this enough on calls, but they are the most frequently seen component of the funnel, and therefore require the most attention in order to combat fatigue. So the more something is seen, the more you have to change it up in order to have people keep clicking on it, right? Because if they've seen it before, they feel like they've seen it, and then they'll just move on, right? And so keeping ads fresh is the key. All right. OK, so this is a really important slide. It's the impact of the ad elements. And so what do I mean by ad elements? I mean any of those elements that you see in this ad example here on the right. So, for instance, we have, you see them listed up. There's the angle, which is like all of the elements together, the idea that the ad represents, OK? And the headline, you clearly see it right here. It's in blue. When neuropathy hits, try this. It's genius. That's the headline. The image is obviously the image right here. Supporting copies, this little blurb right here. And the call to action of read more. And then the layout. So the layout is like the image on the left, the headline and copy on the right. You can move the image on the right and test the copy on the left. You can switch it up. You can change like the color of the text, et cetera. So layout doesn't matter too much. And these are listed in order of impact, OK? So one through six. So white, not very impactful. Red, extremely impactful. OK. All right. And so how impactful? That's the question. I'll help you understand what you should be focusing on. So the ad angle, 70%, 70% is your ad angle. This is the elements that increase the conversion rate the most, right? We're going after sales. We're affiliates. It's just an arbitrage play. We're trying to make more than we spend in ad spend. We've got to get revenue in. We've got to get sales. This affects it more than anything else by far, the ad angle that you've chosen. Then it's the headline, 15%. Then it's the image, 10%. Then it's the supporting copy, 5%. All right? So I'll read this. Get the ad angle right and everything else will fall into place. Your metrics are a mirror of your marketing. In other words, if your marketing is good, all those metrics you see in DIY tracks that you're trying to optimize for, they will just be good. If your marketing is good, your metrics will look good. If your marketing is bad, your metrics will look bad. And it won't matter how much tweaking you try to do with those metrics if your marketing is bad, OK? So you've heard me say it a hundred times. The magic is in the marketing. And 70% of that magic is in the ad angle, right? So it can be said that the magic is in the ad angle. This is it. Any questions on this before I move on to the next slide? Hold on. So can you go back through the ad angle one more time and just... Yeah, I'm going to give you examples. What exactly is it? OK. Yeah, that's coming next. So... Example would be perfect, your BTS coach. Thank you. Yeah. I meant to tell you at the beginning of this, too, that y'all can ask questions all through this. You don't have to just listen to me give a presentation. We can keep it interactive. So if you have a question, just stop me and ask. All right, so here we go. So where do you think you're going to find your main edge? Ad angles. No brainer. All right, so an easy way to define and come up with ad angles. All marketing is storytelling. So our affiliate funnel is telling a story. The basic affiliate funnel consists of three steps, right? It's the ad, the advertorial presell page, and then the offer page. The ad is the beginning of the story. The advertorial is the middle, and the offer page is the end. So the ad angle is how all of the ad elements work together to start the story, OK? So the ad angle is a part of the ad, which is the beginning of the story. And it's how all of those elements, the headline, the image, the supporting text, the call to action, it's how they all interact together to start the story. So here's a visual. All right, here's the ad, beginning of the story. If someone is curious enough, they will click on it to learn more. Here's the advertorial. And this is an advertorial that's in everybody's Flexi account. So... Hey, your BTS coach. Yes. Would you say that that is like a hook? Because basically, the image is creating curiosity almost as if you asked a question, even if you didn't put it in the headline. Because you're like, why is her foot red? Like, that's the question I see, and there's an arrow. Like, it just puts a question in people's mind. Right. And then you put the image. So is that like a hook? Yeah, it is. It is a hook. It's a way to hook people in. You know, in marketing, it depends on who you learn from. You'll... There's... It's like the same term given for so many different things. But I try to give, like, it could be an angle. It could be a hook. I've heard a few other ways of doing it. But, like, the way I like to think of it is just a story. And how are you starting the story? It's just a simple way for my brain to think of, like, how can I create better marketing if I'm telling a story? OK, my ad just needs to tell the story in a different way. It needs to start the story in a different way. So when I started thinking of it that way, it was easier, a lot easier for me to come up with new ad angles. All right, so that was the beginning. And then here's the middle, the advertorial, right? And there's a really long, long-form advertorial. It'll eventually have links that go to the offer page, which is the final step of the funnel, the third step, which is this one right here. So NeuroEase. OK, this is where they buy. All right, so back to the ad and the ad angle specifically. The ad angle is how each of the ad elements work together to start the story. OK, so again, the elements, image, headline, supporting text, call to action. All right, so how is this ad starting the story? Somebody give me their idea. Foot pain. Yeah, foot pain. Focusing on a pain point for the customer. Right, focusing on a pain point, which is good. It's all about, it's really all about this genius device that is unnamed, unmentioned, and you have to click to go read it, you know? So there's a lot of curiosity involved. And you want to, you want to always have curiosity in your ads, no matter what angles you're using. And so you want to keep the loop open, not close the loop, they call it. So closing the loop would then be like giving the name of the product and the price of the product and all that on in the ad, right? You want to keep them curious enough to where they got to click to go find out, because what you're selling is the click here. We're really not trying to sell the device. We're selling the click. We're selling the interest in this idea. You know, for somebody to get pain relief. It is kind of like the beginning, person, problem, pain. You've probably seen that. And it's like, you're basically encapsulating that with the image, which is also going to draw attention to the audience that has that problem. They will see that the pain and they'll go, wait, I can relate to that. Yes, that's good. So can you think of other ways to start the story of NeuroEase? All right, where I always start is the advertorial. Okay, you got to look at the advertorial and pull out ideas from the advertorial to put in your ads because your ad angle doesn't necessarily have to have anything to do or very little to do with your offer, which is the third step down. It just has to have relevance with the next step. And the next step is the advertorial. So your advertorial is a story about all kinds of things, which you can edit to your heart's content. You can change it from a woman to a man. You can change the testimonials and include the testimonials in your ad so that they are more congruent. But I'm kind of getting off track here. So what we want to do is start with the advertorial. I want to show you how to pull out the gold line by line from the advertorials. Okay, so first idea I always like to test is congruence. So immediate congruence. And so here's the big idea. Here's the example ad that I created. Here's the page and the elements that I took from the page to put in the ad to achieve this immediate congruence big idea. So my idea is, like, I want people, if they are clicking on the ad, they've read it and they are intrigued and ready to go. They click it. If they see the same exact thing on the landing page, that is super relevant and congruent. There are no disconnects there. There's nothing there that would cause them to


---
Title: CB LP - Generating Landing Page Angles Using POE
Video ID: X4fC7bUAd7E_Lhmm

First of all, let me share my screen here, and we'll go through this into the chat as well. This is another one that Robin can add to the resource sheet and does the part one. This is the affiliate angle architect for landing pages. So as our phase two traffic source has opened up a bit more for us to test some lower dollar amounts there per banner, it's opened up a lot of opportunities. And because it is a CPC traffic source rather than a CPM traffic source, we, I don't know if Erica and Robin, if you can hunt down the noise and just mute people or people if you're not, just everybody should be muted right now with me talking. And then as you raise your hand and I call on you, then you can come off mute and jump in, but that'll help. I'm just getting some feedback noise here. Thank you. All right. Fantastic. All right. As we move to a CPC traffic source. Yeah, great. I see this in the chat. Could I explain CPM? M is mil. It is Latin for a thousand. And so CPM is cost per thousand and it is cost per thousand impressions. This is an industry standard term. Just part of the jargon CPM. When you see that you are paying for impressions. You are not technically paying for the clicks. So your ad gets shown to a thousand people and based on the strength of your marketing material, you'll have a certain percentage of those people click. And because you are paying for the thousand impressions, we can then take what you paid for those a thousand impressions, how many clicks you got on those thousand impressions and do a division to get your cost per click, even on a CPM. So in DIY tracks on phase one traffic, which is a CPM traffic source, you pay for the impressions. They show you the impression. They show your ad banner. You're paying to show your ad banner to a thousand people, and then you get whatever clicks you get or don't get and your cost per click is just based on, you had to pay this much to get it shown. Here's how many clicks you got. This is what you paid. This is how many clicks we divide. We get your cost per click. That's a CPM network. You pay per impressions. And once again, M is the Roman numeral Latin. It's mil. It stands for a thousand. So thinking in terms of Roman numerals and stuff like that or millennia, right? A millennium, a thousand years. That's probably our closest common term that we would use. That's similar to that. So a thousand years is a millennium. That's what we're talking about. Cost per click means that the ad network charges you every time someone clicks on your ad. And that is CPC cost per click. And so when the ad network works on a cost per click basis, every time your banner gets clicked, you get charged a certain basically set amount. And so in a cost per click environment, it is not, I want to be careful here. How shall I say this carefully? I'll say that the importance shifts more to the engagement with the funnel further down because on CPM you have to grab their attention and you're fighting for those clicks and the attention, right? You're competing for that in a CPM. They show it to a thousand people. You got to fight for the clicks. With a CPC. Yeah, you still need your stuff to be clicked, but because they're going to charge you every time it's clicked, it's less important that your stuff is clicky. Still important, but it's less slightly less important and more important that it leads to a stronger engagement on your landing page and on the VSL because you are paying essentially a flat cost for everyone who clicks. So you want the highest potential for them to turn into conversions. Whereas on a CPM network, you need to fight for the clicks on the front end more. And so we optimize a little bit more toward clickiness of your stuff in order to get enough eyeballs on your landing page and on your VSL to lead to conversions. So the dynamics just shift a little bit from a CPM to a CPC network. And that's important to understand. And so your ad CTRs are a little less important in a CPC based network than they are in a CPM based network. And especially if we are talking about competing with an algorithm and being in a marketplace where you are either paying cost per click or CPM with us shifting there, we're focusing a lot more on our landing page stats, and it's going to open up and allow us to test landing pages in a little different way. And so we're going to lean more toward testing some very different angles on our landing pages. So up to this point, you've been given some templates, but we're going to open up and start to test more angles and different angles on the landing pages to try to find the landing page angle that's going to resonate best with your market. And if you've already done round one, round two, you're in a round three on a phase one or something, and you're struggling to get some landing page traction, or you've moved into the phase two traffic source and you've gotten so much landing page traction, but you can't seem to get over that hump. This is the next thing to test would be a different angle on the landing pages entirely, which means reworking the entire landing page top to bottom that it's all aligned around some sort of different angle than what your current landing page is. Now, the templates that I, that we have provided for you. I have seen mentees across the board with good headlines and good hero shots able to get those to 30%, 40% click through rates on different variants with a good headline and a good hero shot. So our templates will give you that base with the body copy and all of that. And you really do have a lot of control with just a headline and a hero shot. And I'm seeing mentees consistently do it when they hit good marketing materials for their heroes and their headlines hit about that 40% on at least one of their variants. So it's definitely doable with the templates, but to get that competitive edge in affiliate marketing, we're always trying to find what can I do that someone else isn't already doing right? Stand out, be unique in the marketplace. And so this is one of the tools that providing along those lines that I've created, and this is the affiliate angle architect. And this bot will not write the pages for you. All right. So I want you to hear that very clearly. This is just a part one. This is simply ideating coming up with different angles. So this will help you come up with a bunch of different angles to test. And I'll give you a little demonstration here of how this works. I am working on creating another bot that will actually write the pages for you as well. End to end for all of these angles. And you'll be able to have five, six angles spun up, ready to go quickly. We will use a basically consistent landing page template so that you'll more or less just copy and paste the different elements into there. And then you can test five or six different angles on your landing pages quite quickly. And because our phase two traffic source, uh, we get the data back much faster and, and we're able to test that with smaller amounts on our banners. And we don't have to throw a thousand dollars at it right away. This is opening up a lot of new possibilities, which is really fantastic. So this is part one. More is coming, but this will get you started at least with different angles and thinking about different angles for your market. And the first step on this bot, as you come in, you'll see the welcome message here is just asking for the target market, age, gender, geographic location, any other relevant details. And I will show you how simple this can be. So do not make mountains out of molehills. So for age, I'm going to run with, I'll just run the Nagano tonic in this. For this one. I have that transcript ready to go. And so I'll just run that. And so for these weight loss offers, I'm typically looking at age. This would be age primarily, 45 plus, but some, we'll go the other way, 35 to 44. Primarily female. Once again, female, geographic location, United States, want to lose weight. I hope I could spell right. And then that's it. So you don't have to overcomplicate this, right? If you have a full customer avatar, for example, if you put your transcript into affiliate CMO and you have that customer avatar and you want to take some of those background sections from your customer avatar there, that it does in the marketing data and background info on your customer avatar. You could copy and paste that out and put it in here. Okay. So you could put in detailed customer avatar targeting stuff and it will, I will tell you this, it will affect what angles you get out of this. So what you tell it to focus on for your target demographic will affect the angles that it gives you back because different demographics will respond to different angles. Very obviously male versus female. Our brains are wired differently. We focus on different things. We respond to different types of messaging. And so if you put
 in that it's male versus female, you're going to get different angles out of this thing. For the exact same product, same transcript, same VSL, if you put different age ranges in, you're going to get different angles out. And so it does affect this, but you don't have to do anything crazy fancy, and you can play with this, right? That's one of the cool things about AI is it costs very little to get the outputs. So you can try it with this, and then on another time, you can just say like 35 plus, mixed male and female audience, you know, what, like you can, you can play with this. This is what I'm going to put in, just simple, and let it go to work. And the next thing, it says it's ready to analyze the VSL transcript. Please paste your VSL transcript. You can paste it, or you can simply upload it. I just have it in a .txt document, so a text document. It's just a plain text doc, and I'm just going to throw that file in here, so I don't have to copy and paste, and you can just throw the file in here. And now it's going to go through, and it's going to look at our target demographic to help us here, and do some analysis on the core promise identification. So lose 20 to 90 plus pounds without diets, exercise, or injections using a seven-second water ritual. Results begin immediately, 2.7 pounds the first night of significant changes in weeks to months. Mechanisms, Nagano fat burning tonic, powdered blend of Japanese herbs mixed with water. The distinctive ingredient is these catechins from rare Japanese plants that trigger thermogenesis and lipolysis. Several core, seven core ingredients, excuse me, plus potency blend of additional metabolism boosters. And it'll go through pain points, proof elements, objection identification. And here we go into the marketing angles. All right. And so this one has been rated as number one. It will rank order these by its prediction of what will resonate best with this audience. Now we test to actually find out what does resonate, but it's been given some direct response marketing principles to help direct it on choosing which ones. And you can see it has a rating system here on this. And so here's our first angle is Japanese longevity secret. The Japanese water trick that makes American women 20 years younger. Why Nagano women live 10 years longer and weigh 42 pounds less in the seven second morning ritual is changing everything for women over 45. You'll see it'll give you everything for this angle right here. It'll give you the congruence rating, differentiation assessment, emotional impact, clarity, believability, urgency, banner ad effectiveness, and then conceptual understanding on how to apply this, which will be important when you go to write your actual landing page. It's helping you with implementation guidance and understanding what this angle is actually about. So this one works by leveraging the established credibility of Japanese longevity and health practices. Women 45, particularly receptive to anti-aging approaches that promise both weight loss and longevity benefits. Specific statistics, 42 pounds less, 10 years longer, create concrete visualization benefits, while seven second ritual addresses the need for simple sustainable solutions. Then cold traffic optimization, because that's what it's built for, because that's what we run, is cold traffic. This creates immediate pattern interruption among typical diet ads, age-specific appeal, making women 20 years younger resonates strongly with 45 plus demographic. Specific timeframe, seven second ritual addresses skepticism about time commitment. Now, I will say this offer has been out there for a little while. So depending on how sophisticated the audience is to this, that might not be super, super new to them anymore. Some people may have seen the Japanese water trick a few times, but still worth a test, probably. I think angle number two, metabolism reset, real reason your metabolism died at 35, how to restart in seven seconds. So you can see just totally different from the Japanese water trick. We're now looking at the metabolism, the reason your metabolism died and the Harvard researchers exposed the hidden cause that's keeping 40 plus women trapped in fat storage mode and the ancient solution that reverses it overnight. Diet industry exposed angle. Why doctors say dieting makes you fatter. So here we're going after the diet industry and kind of validation type of thing. Oxidative stress revelation. So this is in the mechanism, the hidden cellular damage making women over 40 gain weight automatically. New research reveals the internal inflammation that triggers unstoppable weight gain and the seven second Japanese ritual that stops it cold. And these headlines and subheadlines are pretty, pretty good. Does a pretty good job of writing those out here. Angle five, from exhausted mom to energized goddess in three weeks without coffee or stimulants. So this is a transformation. You can see it's a story narrative type of angle. This how this ancient Japanese morning spark is giving women over 45 the energy of their twenties while melting away stubborn belly fat. Marriage transformation. How losing 42 pounds saved my marriage and how we're hitting this from a relational standpoint and brought back the passion. Amy's story from hiding under covers to feeling sexy again. The Japanese ritual that transformed our love life in ways I never expected. All right, so totally different approach to this. And if you were on the call the other day where I went through Bob's landing page, I think that this was one that this was the type of angle that resonated very strongly with his audience and was working well. He got a couple of sales, I think, because of this type of angle, the emotional relationship within committed partners, whether it's husband, wife or whatnot. But that's huge for this demographic is that connection with their spouse or with their partner. That's huge for them. Doctor shock. Doctor's jaw drops when patient loses 59 pounds doing everything wrong. All right. I'm not sure what you're doing, but keep doing it. Why this man's results are baffling medical professionals and the simple ritual behind it all. Christopher's story is in this VSL, and that's what they are referring to here. If you aren't familiar with the Nagano tonic VSL, this is the main spokesperson and whatnot there throughout the whole thing. Injection alternative. $3 Japanese alternative to $1,300 weight loss injections. So different take on this. Why thousands are ditching dangerous shots for this ancient ritual. Same results, zero side effects, and it costs less than a coffee. Nine. Survival mode. Why your body is stuck in starvation mode. How to switch it off in seven seconds. So these angles should be getting a little weaker, right? As we go down here. So angle 9 shouldn't be as likely to resonate with our target market as angles 1 through 5. So that's the best guess of this bot. But I would tend to agree that this one right here, survival mode, it may yet be worth a test if you've tested all the other earlier ones and you want to give this a shot. But I don't think that this one is as likely to hit as some of those earlier ones with the audience. But again, it's a decent angle still. It definitely could resonate with certain market segments. From hiding my body to turning heads at 52. This one I actually think has a decent. This is more the social relational type stuff. So rather than personal intimate husband-wife relationship, it's social, which is still very important to women. And so I think this one has a great chance at working, especially in a kind of a crowded market where it's the mechanism of the water trick and whatever. They've seen so many hacks and tricks and fruits and fats and proteins and whatnot. Like they've seen ads for those a bazillion times. So taking a slightly different tact of let's focus on the relationship side or the societal side, the emotional tie in here. I think that that has a great chance of standing out in a crowded marketplace that's trying to talk either science terms or these tricks or hacks or whatnot. And they just become blind to some of that. So how the shy grandmother shocked everyone at her daughter's wedding, including herself, with a 34 pound transformation that started with seven seconds each morning. And 11 here, metabolism science angle. Again, women over 45, the science is probably lower down again on the scale of things that are likely to resonate immediately. But Harvard discovers why women over 45 can't lose weight. It's not what you think. Shocking truth about lipolysis and why your fat cells stopped responding to diet and exercise plus the seven second fix that reactivates them. And 12, simplicity. The laziest way to lose 40 pounds. Take seven seconds. Works while you sleep. No diets, no workouts, no restrictions. Just mix this Japanese powder with water each morning. Watch the pounds melt away automatically. And so it does the 12 and you have everything here and you'll be able to take those and put them into another bot that I'll be creating to actually write the landing page copy for you top to bottom. Thank you. Thank you, Doug. See the applause. I can only see a few of you guys over here, but appreciate it. Thank you. This should be helpful in priming that. You can have a little chat with it. You can talk back and forth, ask it different things. If we target a younger demographic. You can ask it things like this. How does it change? Life stage differences. All right. So 35 year olds are focused more on career advancement. Young families beginning to notice metabolism changes. High social media awareness. 45 year old established careers, older children, significant metabolism.
 More health-focused, different digital behavior, weight loss motivations, how they differ between the two. So for, it's probably around social media transformation would be the number one that it would recommend if you went after that younger 35 demo. So the Instagram-worthy transformation that's breaking the internet. This 35-year-old mom went from hiding in oversized hoodies to posting bikini pics in six weeks using weird Japanese water hack that takes seven seconds. All right, so you can see in real time here, I'm showing you that changing the target demographic is going to change up the angles that you get. Significantly, we didn't see any of this Instagram anything when we targeted a 45-plus demo. And now we're seeing this type of thing. So you're getting different angles to go after based on your target demo. Basically, all you need to do is tell it what target demo you are going after, give it your VSL transcript, and voila, a plethora of angles to test. Yeah, you like that word, huh? Pulling out my SAT material here. Let's see here. More tangential angles of yet offer. All right, so let's try to do a little better than the obvious stuff, right? Is there something that's a little bit outline? All right, so this is interesting, right? So it went with a totally weird kind of connection here. Financial stress weight gain angle. Why your credit card debt is making you fat and the Japanese solution that fixes both. Okay, very different, all right? Ron, yes, you do have to subscribe to PO to access this. But not only does it give you access to this, it also gives you access to my other landing page bots, plus basically all the other major models, OpenAI's models, Claude's models, Runway for video stuff, image generation, all kinds of bots here in PO that are available. I can't tell you whether it's worth it to you or not. They did change the subscription model, so it is a little bit of a chunk of change. I had a grandfathered plan that was really great for a long time, and recently, I had to fork over the hundred-plus bucks for the yearly plan that they now make you do. I had a, it was like 12, I don't know, I was on like $12 a month or something like that, I forget. It was, yeah, it was quite nice, and now it's a little more, but this platform is pretty great, so you get some pretty good stuff here. And you have a million credits, basically, to use across any of their models or any bots, custom bots like this that get created on here. And you could, should you want to do, create your own custom bots on here. If you feel like you know what you're doing and whatnot, I will tell you the instructions for this bot, yours don't have to be that complex, but the instructions for this bot, I think, are, I think it's something close to a 90-page Word document for this, which does include a lot of examples, so maybe 50 pages of that plus as examples of stuff and breakdowns to tell it how to know what to do. Yours don't have to be that complex, but I find I get better results if I really give it a lot. Anyway, how I made my mother-in-law eat her words along with 37 pounds. The petty satisfaction of proving the woman who called you chunky completely wrong using the Japanese secret she'll never figure out. All right. Divorce prep angle. Ooh, the divorce diet that's not about divorce. Why smart women are getting their revenge body ready, even in happy marriages. Okay. All right, so I love this. And all I did was just, like, ask it to come up with some kind of obscure angles that would be different than the obvious stuff. And so, why the fat kid inside you is still running your life. How childhood food shame creates adult weight struggles, Japanese ritual that finally breaks the cycle your therapist can't touch. The pre-menopause weight gain nobody warns you about. Man, the anti-depressant weight gain they don't tell you about. Why losing weight made my social anxiety worse until I found this. Why perfectionist women can't lose weight, the all or nothing trap. What to do with yourself after the kids leave. All right. Anyway, how I beat my fat genes. Spoiler, they were never the problem. All right, I think lots of great stuff here, but I'll quit. You may take this, use this if you have a PO subscription. Let me throw that in the chat again. And just go here. Link in the chat. And Robin also has in the spreadsheet resources. All of my other bots as well, and I think this one will be added shortly, if she didn't already, because she often does stuff like that. Spoiler, it's in there. Look at that. See there? Fantastic. Thank you, Robin. Great. Okay.


---
Title: CB LP - How to Use the Affiliate Architect Bot
Video ID: EZuZqqGvP09hbuvD

In this video, I'm going to show you how to get angles for your landing pages to promote your ClickBank product. We're going to use the affiliate angle architect here in Po. This is the PoBot. Find the link from this Blitz page right below this video will be the link over to this PoBot. You can navigate to this PoBot. You will need a Po subscription. Once you are in here with the affiliate angle architect, you simply need to put in some demographic information. So the age, gender, geographic location, any other relevant details. It really can be this simple. Okay, age over 40, gender, mostly female, but some male, geographic location, United States. Any other relevant details. I said they want to lose weight. They're in a low emotional state, willing to watch a 40 to 60 minute VSL and make a purchase afterwards. So very basic information. And now it's going to tell us what it will do and it wants a transcript. And so you can paste in the transcript or I have it in a .txt file. So I'm just dragging and dropping it in here. If you have the text from this, you can copy and then paste it all in here either way. That will work. And now it's going to go to work looking at our target demographic to make sure that the angles are aligned for that. And identify core promise, mechanism, pain points, proof elements, and more. And in very short order after getting the necessary background information out of the VSL script, you will see your 12 marketing angles for Apatobarne in this case. So liver toxicity, the toxic liver sludge making you gain weight while you sleep. Ooh, and Mayo Clinic study exposes why 100% of overweight Americans have this hidden liver damage and the 10 second red wine trick that flushes it out for rapid fat loss. And it tells you the congruence rating on here, the conceptual understanding and implementation guidance and why it works for cold traffic optimization. Another one, French paradox secret angle, metabolism shutdown angle, exercise futility, why working out makes you gain weight after 40. So you'll have 12 of these angles ready to go, all broken down for you, headlines and subheadlines. And then we can take them and put them into the bridge page copy bot to get the full copy for our bridge pages. So these are the 12 angles that we've got here from the affiliate angle architect. And we will now take these angles over to the bridge page copy bot and we will simply feed it to the bridge page copy bot one at a time and we will get our landing page copy.


---
Title: CB LP - How to Use the Bridge Page Bot
Video ID: ZyxiIrVba55_pB7g

I have a bot, once again, similar to the angle architect. We give it a little bit of demographic information and then also a transcript. I'm just giving it the Nagano tonic transcript here because I did not use that to train this bot. So it is completely clean and unrelated. All right, and I'm just giving it similar stuff to what we did to get our angles. All right, target demographic, age, gender, geolocation, a few other details. It can really be this simple. You can give it more complex demographic information if you want, but it really can be this simple. And then the transcript from the VSL here. All right, so it's running. All right, so I realized that I needed my angle, so I pulled up on my other chat with the angles here while this was writing. So as you can see, it asks for, can you please provide me with specific marketing angle or angles from the affiliate angle architect you'd like me to create a bridge page for? On the last demo that I did a few calls ago, we used this affiliate architect to create some angles. And so I'm just gonna go in here and I'm gonna grab this target demographic and all this as well, and give it angle number one, just down to here. So I'm just gonna copy that and give it over to our bridge page running bot. All right, and it is going to use the exact headline, Japanese water trick that's making American women 20 years younger, why Nagano women live 10 years longer, weigh 42 pounds less, seven second morning rituals changing everything for women over 45. That is the exact headline and sub headline from our angle. All right, I created this angle bot to write really good headlines and sub headlines. And so the copy bot here does not try to improve on that. It simply writes the copy based on that. So in congruence with the angle. So have you ever wondered why Japanese women look so young and slim, even in their sixties and seventies while American women struggle with stubborn belly fat, low energy and feeling invisible? Japanese women stay lean, vibrant, full of life well into their golden years. For decades, scientists were baffled by this difference till they discovered something remarkable. Mountain region of Nagano, Japan. Women there don't just live longer than anywhere else in the world. They're also the slimmest and all comes down to a simple seven second morning ritual. Special water trick they've used for centuries. No diets, no exercise, no expensive injections, just a simple morning routine that activates your body's natural fat burning mechanism. Same mechanism that keeps Japanese women 42 pounds lighter than American women, helps them live an average of 10 years longer. Now for the first time ever, this ancient secret has been adapted for American women. Results are stunning. Losing 20, 30, even 50 plus pounds while eating their favorite foods. Energy is soaring. Skin is glowing. And they're looking years younger. Watch the video to see how it works. P.S. This works especially well for women over 45. The video explains the fascinating science behind why. And so we've got one angle there. We can go grab another one. Oxidative stress is fine. Let's go with the marriage transformation angle here. Just boom, I'll put in another angle. Oh, okay. Nice. All right. I'm able to just give it another angle. Now it's going to write another page for us. All right. So how losing 42 pounds saved my marriage, brought back the passion. Amy's story from hiding undercovers to feeling sexy again. The Japanese ritual that transformed our love life in ways I never expected. Does this sound familiar? You turn off the lights before getting undressed, hide under bags of clothes, and avoid mirrors at all costs. My name is Amy. I used to live this way every single day. After three kids, years of failed diets, I'd gained 45 pounds. I felt invisible, unsexy, like my husband didn't even notice me anymore, et cetera. All right. So you can see totally different angle here. Totally different copy for this page. Still pretty short. Follows basically the same structure here. Not too complicated. Pretty short, simple page, but with different one of these angles. If we could go down here and grab one of these that we did with around 35. Let's see here. Demographic shift. And I'll take this angle number one here. Okay. Here's where it's going to ask a little bit more. Yes. Do the new page. I can use both of those as well. Okay. Screenworthy transformations breaking the internet. This 35-year-old mom went from hiding in oversized hoodies to posting bikini pics in six weeks using a weird Japanese water hack that takes seven seconds. Tired of hiding behind filters and strategic angles, watching your friends post confident selfies while you avoid the camera? I get it. At 35, I was that mom who lived in oversized hoodies, deleted photos before posting them, and felt invisible at every social gathering. While other women my age were posting bikini vacation pics, I was cropping myself out of family photos. Then I discovered something that changed everything. The bizarre Japanese water hack that literally takes seven seconds. All right. So there's a different angle. Let's go down here. I asked it to find some kind of obscure angles here, if you remember. I was like, hey, this offer's been out there. Can you find something that's a little bit different? So here's a mother-in-law angle. Yeah. Here's where it's asking for confirmation. Before continuing, that's one of those little things that I need to even out there to just make sure that just write it. If I give you an angle, write it. Don't ask me for extra confirmation to write it. Of course, I want you to write it. So that's what I'm talking about. I'll be fine-tuning it. But those are the rough edges that you have to work around. I think you can get past telling it, yes, write it again. So I think I'll be okay. I made my mother-in-law eat her words along with 37 pounds. A petty satisfaction of proving the woman who called you chunky completely wrong using a Japanese secret she'll never figure out. We all have that one person, the one who makes little comments about your weight. For me, it was my mother-in-law. Maybe you should try smaller portions, dear. Have you considered joining a gym? My son used to date such thin girls. Every family gathering was torture. The sideways glances, the helpful diet suggestions, the way she'd buy me XL clothes for Christmas. I tried everything to prove her wrong. Keto, Weight Watchers, those awful shakes. Nothing worked. She just kept smirking. Then I discovered something she'd never expect. A weird Japanese water trick that takes seven seconds. All right, so you can see totally different angles here. So we're just taking the angles. It will write you the copy here. Follows a very consistent pattern. The copy here is slightly longer than the page I'm going to show you here, but not a lot. So we just go in here. So it's a simple page. Something like this. You could play with the font size and stuff. This one needs a little fine-tuning on mobile. Here's one from a skin angle side. But you can see it's just simple headlines, subheadlines, maybe some text up here. If you get that in the template, then you've got your hero and then your body copy in a very simple sort of call to action. So nothing fancy. So very simple bridge pages as we are focusing mostly on the angle, which angle of the copy works best. All right. Any questions on this? And I'll get into your other raised hands questions. But let me see. I'm not. I do have a question about it. So for each landing page that we're creating, we make a separate body copy for it? Correct. Yeah. Yep. We're going to move to, for our landing pages, our initial landing pages, testing different angles. So probably 10 different angles is what is now being recommended. And so you'll set up 10 different pages instead of the metric mover tests at first. So these body copies that this produces, we would use that body copy with our headlines to make our landing pages. No, you would use these headlines that it gives you. Yeah. But we'd also use this body copy. Yes. Yep. Exactly. Yep. Thank you. Yeah, you're welcome. Yeah, you use the whole thing. Use the whole thing. Yep.


---
Title: CB LP - How to Use the Bridge Page Copy Bot
Video ID: tNlRT6KKBvXc47iq

In this video, I'm going to show you how to get copy for your landing page, also called a bridge page or a jump page. In this case, these short landing pages that take people over to a ClickBank VSL. We're going to get that copy using this bridge page copybot and using the angles that the affiliate angle architect bot turned out for us. And so here I am on the bridge page copybot. You'll need to open this up in Poe. I've also got my affiliate angle architect conversation open because the first thing the bridge page copybot asks for are the demographics. And so I'm going to take the same information. Notice it's pretty light here. Age, gender, geographic location, any relevant details. Not much required. And so I'm going to give it that. The other thing that we also need to give it is the transcript from the VSL. You should have a text format of that and you can either copy and paste the text in there or like I'm doing, drag and drop a .txt file with the transcript in it. And then it will run with that. All right. And so now it's ready for the angles. I'm just going to jump back over here to the angle architect and come down and get our top angle. And so you can simply come through here and highlight angle number one, copy that, come back over here, just paste that in and the bridge page copybot will get to work on writing your landing page for you. Okay, and there we go. So it's very short. It's just a jump page, but the copy is very strong for encouraging people to click through to go watch the video and getting them to invest in watching that VSL. And so you can see it's keeping the same exact angle, the same headline, the toxic liver sludge making you gain weight while you sleep. You can see that is the toxic liver sludge making you gain weight while you sleep. And the subheadline Mayo Clinic study exposes why 100% of overweight Americans have this hidden liver damage and the 10 second red wine trick that flushes it out for rapid fat loss. Same thing. So headline and subheadline have been kept the same by this bridge page copybot. And then it has written supporting body copy to go with it, starting with a question, never wonder why you wake up feeling heavier than when you went to bed, even when you barely ate anything the day before. There's a disgusting reason why and it has nothing to do with what you think. Mayo Clinic researchers just made a shocking discovery. 100% of overweight Americans have toxic sludge clogging their liver. This thick black buildup is like cement in your body's fat burning furnace, making it impossible to burn calories while you sleep. Instead, everything gets stored as belly fat. The worst part, the liver sludge gets thicker every single night from the 85000 plus toxins you're exposed to daily through food, water, air, even your shampoo. Your liver becomes so clogged it can't process fat anymore. So your body has no choice but to store it, especially around your belly. But here's the incredible part. French researchers discovered a weird red wine trick that dissolves the sludge in seconds. It's based on rare nutrients found in certain vineyards between Dijon and Lyon that naturally purify and supercharge your liver overnight. The results are kind of wild. Your metabolism speeds up by 450%. Stubborn fat melts away while you sleep. You wake up lighter every morning. All from a simple 10 second morning ritual. No dieting, no exercise, no restrictions. Watch the shocking video now. P.S. This works especially well if you've struggled with weight for years. The video explains why your liver damage might actually make this solution more effective. Alright, so great little jump page there that is written out and you want the next one. We just go down through this angle output here. Grab the second angle, throw it in here, and it goes off to the races and we'll write the bridge pages. Repeat this for all of the jump page copy that you need. And you can pull this copy out of here to get these messages to the three little dots here at the top that say more actions. You can click on that and come up to copy message. And then you're able to paste this out into a Google doc or a Word doc or a text document or whatever you'd like to paste it out into. But that's how you get the copy out of here other than highlighting. You can, of course, just highlight the text, copy and paste, but right here, this will copy out the whole message for you and keep the styling of the headings and everything like that in place. OK, that's it. That is how you use the bridge page copy bot to get the copy for your jump pages using the angles put out by the affiliate angle architect bot.


---
Title: CB LP 1 - Install Video DownloadHelper
Video ID: _wvhwLy25ngK4xi8

In this video, I'm going to show you how to install the add-on Video Download Helper to the Mozilla Firefox browser so that you can download VSLs, the video sales letter, that's the video on ClickBank that sells the product. This will allow you to download all kinds of videos from all over the place, but it is the most versatile downloader for videos that I have found. Many videos that I'm otherwise unable to download because of restrictions or things on the browser, this piece of software will allow me to download even those most difficult videos. It works in Mozilla Firefox browser, so if you do not have the Mozilla Firefox browser installed on your computer already, you will need to do that. You can do a Google search for Mozilla Firefox browser, that is M-O-Z-I-L-L-A, Firefox, F-I-R-E-F-O-X. Do a search for that and it'll come up and you'll have instructions for how to download and install that on your computer. Once you have the Firefox browser pulled up, you're going to want to navigate to this upper right-hand corner. I know it's kind of small, but you're looking for this puzzle piece up here in the upper right-hand corner, and that's the extensions. We're going to go ahead and click on that, and then you will see this little bar that says find more add-ons, search add-ons.Mozilla.org. In that, I'm going to type Video, V-I-D-E-O, Download Helper, all is one word, D-O-W-N-L-O-A-D-H-E-L-P-E-R, Video Download Helper, and then hit enter. And now it is going to pull up the results. The top one you'll see has these three primary color circles, red, yellow, blue. It says Video Download Helper has over 1.7 million users. That is the one we want. Go ahead and click on that, and then you'll see this big blue box that says Add to Firefox. Go ahead and click on Add to Firefox. And now this little box is hard to see again, but I'm going to click on this Allow extension to run in private windows. I find that sometimes it's best to access the videos in a private window without the cookies and things like that. And so I'm going to go ahead and add with that. And then also I have this dialog box to pin the extension to the toolbar, and I am going to do that because I want it to show up here and be easy to access. So now you can see it is installed here in the top right, and if you hover a mouse over that, you'll see Video Download Helper. If you click on it, you'll get this no media to process because there are no videos in this current tab that we are in. But once we go navigate to a VSL, then you will see that. Down in the middle section, you'll see the privacy policy options here. You won't be able to download certain videos if you don't choose this top option, but you can select your privacy policy comfort level. I'm going to go ahead and do the top option here so that I can download all types of videos. And that is it. I now have the Video Download Helper installed as an add-on to my Mozilla Firefox browser. This is going to allow me to download videos, including VSLs, Video Sales Letters for ClickBank products. That's going to be the first step in our process for obtaining a transcript for the VSL is going to be downloading the video. And this little piece of software makes that happen.


---
Title: CB LP 2 - How to Download Your VSL
Video ID: ivINi6Tn3JvZagIf

In this video, I'm going to show you how to download the video for your VSL, your video sales letter for your ClickBank product. First step is to navigate to the main VSL. And I want to show you something. I'm on that main VSL here. However, if you are in the main ClickBank marketplace and you say view the sales page, you're likely to go to a place like this, which has a small video on it. This is not the main VSL. How do I know? Because it introduces the product very, very early. So if we play this, you'll see that it introduces the product right away. This is like a retargeting page where somebody's already familiar with the product. So this is a retargeting page. We do not want to go to this VSL. This is not the main VSL. This is not the correct page. This is for a warm audience, someone who's already familiar with the product, who's being sent back to make a purchase after they've watched the main VSL. The way you get the main VSL link in many cases is to go to the affiliates, go to the affiliate page, and in the affiliate resources, you'll see a Hoplink generator and under these options, make sure that you choose the Hopato Burn main VSL. Zoom a little bit so you can see. So under here, Hopato Burn main VSL. When you make that selection, you'll be able to use this link to open up a page like this with the main VSL. I know this is the main VSL because it starts with a curiosity hook. It doesn't start by introducing the product. Now, it's important that you play this. It's important that you play this video some so that your video download helper will recognize the videos. And when it does pick up the videos, you'll see that the icon will turn colored. When you click on this, you will now be able to see your options for downloading. Now, there's an 11 second something or other here. I'm not sure what that is, but I have this 49 minute one here. That's going to be my main VSL. And I'm going to now click this download and it's going to work on downloading, of course. And that's going to take a little while depending on your internet speed. And once it's done, you'll be able to locate that in a folder. And if you want to see where you can locate this video after it downloads, you can click here in the settings icon and then go to more settings here. If you scroll down, you will see the download directory. And so I can see the drive and what folder that is going to. If you want to change the location of where that would download, you can click on this blue change in order to change where the video will download to. But for now, it's going to download to this hard drive and this folder. So you should be able to see where it ends up on your computer and be able to locate it after it downloads.


---
Title: CB LP 3 - How to Get a Transcript of Your VSL Video with Temi
Video ID: JjZwva7mpSbBGm27

In this video, I'm going to show you how to get a transcript for your VSL, your video sales letter, using Temi. That's T-E-M-I. You can see it here on the screen. Temi.com. You can type that in, T-E-M-I.com, and search for it. This is a wonderful AI transcription service. I've used it for a very long time, years, and it works well. You may end up with a screen that looks like this, where they say try Rev. So like Temi, you'll love Rev. I have not used Rev. You can explore it if you want. I will show you in later videos some options. We are going to need to improve upon our transcript that we get out of this thing. It won't get it 100% correct, some of the words, and so we're going to need to go through and edit to make it better and polish it, make sure it has the correct words in there on some of the more technical terms. You could use Rev to get human transcription that takes you from about 90% certainty and accuracy up to 99%. You do have to wait, of course, for the human transcription. I've always done just the AI transcription with Temi. I've never used Rev, but feel free to try it out. Also, this is just one option for getting a transcript from a video. There are a lot of methods out there. Feel free to use another one if you know another method for getting a transcript. I sometimes use Adobe Premiere because it has an automatic transcription creation process within that Adobe video editor. If you don't have that Adobe product, you're going to need to use another tool. Temi is paid. It's not free, but there are other options for getting transcriptions out there. I just like this one because I know it works. It works well and it's reasonably priced. If you see this, I always go past it. Down at the bottom here, there's this message, not ready to try Rev. Click here to continue using Temi. You can click that link or this X in the top right and go to Temi. I have an account. You're going to probably want to click on Try Now. I'm going to actually log into my account here and I'll show you what it looks like on the inside. Once you are signed in, what you're going to want to do is go to New Order in the top right here. And then you will choose Upload Files and you're going to want to put your video file in there or you can drag and drop. So I have my Hapato burn VSL that I'm going to drag and drop in here and it's going to upload. And once your video finishes uploading, you'll have the option to check out. You can see it's going to cost me $12.50 for this 50-minute transcription. So I'm going to go ahead and click Checkout, go through that process. I'll cut out the billing information here. And once you finish that billing process successfully, it'll say thank you, your order was successful. Your transcripts will be delivered soon. You'll be charged upon delivery. Click OK. And then what you will see is that the status here is set to Processing. All right. And then we will just wait for that transcript to finish. And when it's done, then you'll have this blue link to view the transcript. It took only two minutes probably for this to turn to blue and view transcript. We can now click on that. And now we have the transcript editor. And here you can see the transcript and any words that it's unsure of, it typically puts them in this kind of brown color. And here you can see in a tight pair of jeans, a cleaning dress, something like that. So I can click in there. This is probably a clingy dress, probably not clinging. Yeah, a clingy dress. So that's not a super important word, but we can go through and simply touch up and make sure that the words are what they say they are. The more important stuff is often the technical ingredients and things like that. Sometimes there are some weird words in here, but it does a pretty good job here. Let's see here what this is. Camellia sims. Click on that word twice and then play. Okay, so you can see it's on the video here. Camellia sinensis. So that's what I'm talking about where it will get some of the technical words wrong. Sinensis. And so I'm just going to type it out just like it shows it right on there. All right. Looks like it did get resveratrol correct. Netflix Gen 9. All right. I'm not sure what that is. At home watching Netflix. Genestein. Okay, so there we have another one. So it's Netflix period and then Genestein. All right. So if we go up here, we can see Genestein. Okay, so now it matches. At home watching Netflix. Genestein. A naturally occurring isoflavone with potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. A major study from the University of Tennessee showed Genestein. Okay, so I'm just going to copy that. All right. And then we might just look for the other instances of that to replace. So that's how you just go through and clean up the transcript. Mostly, it's going to be that technical stuff that's going to be important for the ingredients in order to have a clean transcript. So this will do a pretty good job, but you just want to go through and anything that's weird. Again, Hapotoburn right here. So you can see the product name itself. Yeah, so we just want to change that. A powder burn is this Hapotoburn. All right. And so this is going to be important for our AI writing tools to understand. And here you can see this, a powder burn, a Hapotoburn, a Hapotoburn. So a Hapotoburn. He Hapotoburn. So it doesn't recognize that technical name, which is not surprising. And it doesn't recognize some of the strange scientific names of the ingredients and stuff like that. So just go through and clean up the transcript. Once you do and you get that cleaned up, then you can come up here to the right and you can download this and it'll give you different options. You can do inline in a Microsoft Word document, a PDF or a plain text. You can also do columns here and this will tell you. Let's see if I can. Yeah, there we go. So it'll look like this. It gives you a view for what that looks like. Inline looks like this and you could choose to have captions or not have captions and include speaker names, timestamps and to export highlighted sections only. I don't want to export highlighted sections only, but I do want this inline and I want it as a plain text.txt document. That's the easiest to work with. So I'll put format inline, plain TXT file, include speaker names and timestamps. That helps. And then we are going to export this for use in our AI copywriting apps. Now that's going to download and we can save that to a file for working. It's going to download and we can now save that to a file folder for it's going to give us download options. We can save that to a file folder. I'll give us download options and then we can save that to your. It's going to give us download options and then we can save that to appropriate folder where we want to have that for our use later.


---
Title: CB LP Choose Jump Page Base to Clone
Video ID: 7EmVwJWiWeLeMpRu

Okay, in this video, we need to choose a jump page based clone for our copy. We've used the bridge page copybot here to get copy for our page. So we've got this, now we need to choose a base for it. You come over to your Flexi account, come into the Consumer Watchdog site, and we're going to navigate to our live website that we've already cloned previously. And then we're going to scroll down and just take a look at some of these pages. We just need to choose one that looks like it's going to be a good fit, so we can use this preview to open it up. This one doesn't look like it quite fits the layout of our content. It's got these extra four boxes at the bottom, so I'm not going to use that one. This one, yeah, that one looks pretty good. It's going to be pretty easy for us to swap our copy in and everything. So I like the look and feel of this one. At this point, I think this one's going to be good for us. I'm not paying any attention to the hero shot or anything like that. I'm simply looking at the formatting of the content and how that will fit and make it easy for us to put our content into it. And so this one I've decided is a good fit. It's going to take minimal edits to make it fit the format of the content that we've got here. I'm probably going to have the headline and the sub-headline. We'll put in a hero shot and probably that first button. And then we're going to have this content, ever wonder why? And it's just text content down to a button, watch shocking video, and a PS. And so this one's going to be easy to modify to fit the content that we have. So I'm going to go ahead and use this one. And that means that I am going to clone it right here and clone in this website right here. And now we should see that it has been cloned down here. Now we, I'm going to go in here into the settings because this is for Hapotoburn. This is our base jump for Hapotoburn. And then we want to update this path here to better fit what we've got going on with Hapotoburn. And so we'll go over here and let's see here, toxic liver sludge. Let's see, melts away fat. Okay, so it's a red wine trick. All right, so I'm just going to do this, new red wine trick liver sludge. That should be fairly generic for all of the different pages that we're going to create the different angles on that. I think this should work some variation on this. This is just our base page. We just need to create one version of it for now. And then we'll create our split test versions later, depending on whether we're setting up a metric mover split test or simply doing cloned pages. But for now, we're going to set up our base page. So we just want one done. So I'm going to go ahead and update this page. And in the next video, then we're actually going to edit this and create our landing page base copy. But this was just the first step, choosing one and cloning it and then naming it appropriately.


---
Title: CB LP Create More Jump Pages Clone Base
Video ID: ETL0gW5DNpMWfgUp

In this video, we are going to clone our base jump page, our landing page base copy, in order to make the other variants of our landing page. In this case, I have 10 angles and 10 different landing pages that I need to create. And we won't make all 10 of those in this video. We will simply make one additional copy. And then you would follow that process again another eight times to end up with your total of 10 landing pages for your ClickBank product and your initial test. It's very important that, first of all, you have your base copy optimized. So you want to make sure that the links are all correct, that the font sizes are all correct, that the styling of the text, any bullet point lists, emoji lists, buttons, that everything is configured and styled correctly and that it looks good in both desktop and in mobile because otherwise we're going to end up duplicating a lot of extra work for ourselves when we clone this page and then try to input the text and images for the other copies. So if we do it right the first time on the base copy, then we can save ourselves a lot of time and effort. So I've got this one all set up. It's looking good. Everything's styled appropriately, correctly. And so we're going to go into our pages here. I'm going to find this base copy, which was all about this liver sludge. I'll rename that to reflect the liver sludge here. So in the settings, I'm going to go this base jump Hepato burn liver sludge because that's our angle. And so I'm going to update that. And then we are going to go ahead and clone this one and we're going to clone it in this website. And we're going to do our second angle, our page for our second angle, which is the French paradox, basically. So why French women eat croissants daily but stay skinny. It's not genetics. And so this is the thing here. That's our angle on this one. All right, so now it is cloned here. We should go into the settings. And now this is our French paradox. All right, and then I'm going to do is change this. I'm going to put these. Okay, and we should be able to update that and that should take. Hoping I don't need to make that all lowercase. I think it'll do it automatically. Let me go back into the settings. Yeah, good. Okay, so now it looks great. Why French women eat croissants daily but stay skinny. That's going to match our angle. So that's great. Now we can come in here and edit this one, which I've called version two, v2, just to keep things straight. And now it's a simple matter of changing out the elements, starting with the headline here. Copy that and in here. Paste that in. Copy this. All right, there we go. We're back on track there. The hero shot, of course, I want to change out this file here. I want to come in to Hepato burn and I'm going to bring my second landing page GIF in here. Okay, once it's uploaded, I can click on it and insert that media. And then we should see it switch out. Okay, and it has. And good. Okay, and this one now matches this French women eat croissants daily but stay skinny. So you can see my hero idea is matching the headline and the angle on this. Now the text we're going to... Okay, so we've got a little bit of a different situation here. This, okay. And then I'm going to duplicate that and move it down. And now in here, see I've got these three that are boomed together. I'm going to make those these bullet point things here. I'll copy that out and I'm going to... Okay, and then I'm going to change the icon on this thing here because I don't want a check mark icon. I want arrow. Oops, search arrow. I'm going to go something like this. Yeah, okay. And I'm going to change this just a blue, a little less. All right, noticeable. Good, good, good. All right, so that'll be good. And then because we're going to need more text after that. Okay, so there's that one. Cheese and wine for brunch. Sausages. Okay, let's do this. Okay. Okay, good. French paradox. Then in here, they assumed it was genetics. So assumption type of thing. I want to change that as well to maybe a... Let's see. Something like a question mark. Yeah, and then let's change this icon color to... Let's say red. That was wrong. Yeah, let's go with that. That'll be good. And we'll clone that. Okay. Let's see, they assumed it was genetics or smaller portions. All right, or all that walking. These are all things that they don't want to have to do and that this VSL is saying are incorrect. They're not the reasons. All right. Okay, down through here. Okay, we need to put in our spaces. Okay, and then no restrictive dieting. No grueling workouts. No giving up your favorite foods. Nice. Just one simple morning ritual that changes everything. Watch this eye-opening video now. And then we have a PS. That makes me... Where's my... Okay, here's the text. And then I need... Is there... And I need... Okay, PS. That makes me wonder if I missed my... Okay, get the PS line in there. All right, make sure everything's in. Okay, all right. Let's go ahead and save this. And then I know I need to update the SEO data. Yeah. So this content. Let's just take once again the headline just so it matches. There we go. And we'll take this for the other part. There we go. Update that. And then we will publish. And since we got everything set on our first one that served as our base page, this one should be good to go now. We click on this and just check it. All right. French women eat croissants daily, stay skinny. Got our hero. Subheadline matches French paradox. Probably noticed it. French women eat croissants for breakfast, cheese and wine for lunch, eat sausages and bread with dinner, effortlessly slim and elegant. Meanwhile, you eat a salad, gain three pounds. What gives? Decades scientists called the French paradox. They assumed it was genetics or smaller portions or all that walking. Harvard researchers just discovered the real secret. It has nothing to do with any of that. It's a weird red wine ritual from a remote region between Dijon and Leon. All right. You're sleeping, never gain an ounce. Yours aren't no restrictive dieting, no grueling workouts, no giving up your favorite foods. Just one simple morning ritual that changes everything. And we can click. All right, we've got our new page. We can double check in mobile. And yes, that's looking good. Right hero shot. All of the things. Text looks good. Formatting is fine. All right, that's all looking good. Okay. All righty, all righty. So that is it. We've got our additional page created. And then, of course, to make the other ones, you would simply follow the same process. So we would go back out here, clone our base page and then insert the new copy, modify the name and the URL to match and do that eight more times to create all of your pages for your ClickBank product.<|audio_future3|><|vq_lbr_audio_91618|><|vq_lbr_audio_10009|><|vq_lbr_audio_53074|><|vq_lbr_audio_53074|><|vq_lbr_audio_53074|><|vq_lbr_audio_53074|><|vq_lbr_audio_125551|><|vq_lbr_audio_115740|><|vq_lbr_audio_91618|><|vq_lbr_audio_54654|><|vq_lbr_audio_53074|><|vq_lbr_audio_53074|><|vq_lbr_audio_125551|><|vq_lbr_audio_19863|><|vq_lbr_audio_38829|><|vq_lbr_audio_14729|><|vq_lbr_audio_13095|><|vq_lbr_audio_125870|><|vq_lbr_audio_7736|><|vq_lbr_audio_79766|><|vq_lbr_audio_114112|><|vq_lbr_audio_30156|><|vq_lbr_audio_83657|><|vq_lbr_audio_17107|><|vq_lbr_audio_108377|><|vq_lbr_audio_79361|><|vq_lbr_audio_5126|><|vq_lbr_audio_48061|><|vq_lbr_audio_106847|><|vq_lbr_audio_111059|><|vq_lbr_audio_18361|><|vq_lbr_audio_27132|><|vq_lbr_audio_104470|><|vq_lbr_audio_109984|><|vq_lbr_audio_103853|><|vq_lbr_audio_122572|><|vq_lbr_audio_50930|><|vq_lbr_audio_41622|><|vq_lbr_audio_119040|><|vq_lbr_audio_12852|><|vq_lbr_audio_119316|><|vq_lbr_audio_19871|><|vq_lbr_audio_58225|><|vq_lbr_audio_73171|><|vq_lbr_audio_124037|><|vq_lbr_audio_7241|><|vq_lbr_audio_91618|><|vq_lbr_audio_115740|><|vq_lbr_audio_53074|><|vq_lbr_audio_54654|><|vq_lbr_audio_53074|><|vq_lbr_audio_53074|><|vq_lbr_audio_97216|><|vq_lbr_audio_124286|><|vq_lbr_audio_125551|><|vq_lbr_audio_14729|><|vq_lbr_audio_3710|><|vq_lbr_audio_24197|><|vq_lbr_audio_7277|><|vq_lbr_audio_39901|><|vq_lbr_audio_52247|><|vq_lbr_audio_100038|><|vq_lbr_audio_79511|><|vq_lbr_audio_111416|><|vq_lbr_audio_98383|><|vq_lbr_audio_41886|><|vq_lbr_audio_29878|><|vq_lbr_audio_122250|><|vq_lbr_audio_64886|><|vq_lbr_audio_103789|><|vq_lbr_audio_84298|><|vq_lbr_audio_96279|><|vq_lbr_audio_7241|><|vq_lbr_audio_53074|><|vq_lbr_audio_90186|><|vq_lbr_audio_53074|><|vq_lbr_audio_122094|><|vq_lbr_audio_124286|><|vq_lbr_audio_3401|><|vq_lbr_audio_87209|><|vq_lbr_audio_111231|><|vq_lbr_audio_24366|><|end_of_task|>


---
Title: CB LP Create Your Landing Page Base Copy
Video ID: d_NxBgCWQdZ93_eU

Now that we have our base page cloned, we are going to go ahead and edit that page. We will use the copy that we have here in PO for our page. We're going to swap out the copy in the page. Same with this headline, toxic liver sludge. I'm just going to copy that, come in here, and I'm going to go in here. I'm going to paste that in. Now we've got our headline in there. Then we do need a subheadline, so I'm going to go ahead and put in a subheadline here. I'll get this. Here we go. Copy that. Oops, over here into the editor. All right. Bold this, and then... 2, 20, something like that. Okay, that way it's not bleeding over into multiple extra lines there. All right, looks good. We'll come back to the hero in a moment. For now, let's go ahead and grab this text. Let's go like this. Okay. Let's see here. Yeah, put this in here. All right. And I want line breaks between all of this. All right, that way it'll be easier to read, and then we don't need this. Okay, I'll keep that CTA in. Get rid of this. We don't have a quote in ours. Delete that. Okay. Good. So that should work. All right, and then we do have these. OK. OK, it looks like one at a time, so I actually need like one. Copy that. So I'm using Control-Shift-V to paste in. We'll get the next bullet point here. All right. Let's try this. There we go. OK, Control-Shift-V and copy this. Control-Shift-V. All right, I'm going to delete that. OK. And we have this. All right, and Control. Simple. OK. This says no dieting, no exercise, no restrictions. All right, so it's something like this, one of these. And I'm going to grab it and bring it down here. No dieting. And let's see here on this. Select the icon. OK. Let's say something like search icons. Cancel. Let's use that one. And then the icon color, I'm going to turn red. All right, so these are all the things that we don't have to do. Nice. OK, so that looks good. I'm going to clone that and one more time. So we have three of them. OK, so no dieting, no exercise, and no restrictions. OK. Good. That's great. And then we want this. Watch the shocking video now. Copy that. So I'm in here. And there we go. Text here. We can do that like that. That'll be fine. OK. Good. Good, good. So that looks good there. And then actually, I think I'll probably get rid of this button. That wasn't in our template, so I'll probably get rid of that button and this divider. And we'll just have the hero come right into this. So now that I've got this in here, I will probably save this page and then we'll check the content here, of course. So this isn't working. Our scientist uncover strange blue root and that type of thing. So we want something more like this. Just take this headline over here, Control-V, and then I don't need that example page open, I guess. There we go. I'll do this. This one doesn't matter as much. OK. Update that SEO data. That'll be better. All right. Now we want to take a look at this in mobile view as well and want to make sure that this isn't too large. OK, so we've got this tap now to watch in mobile. I'll leave that as a call to action is fine on mobile. OK. It's looking OK. Good. Not seeing any weird things. OK, good. So that's all we've got. So we've got nothing that's funky here on mobile. I'm going to publish this and then we're going to take a look at the page, both in desktop mode and in mobile by clicking on this link right here. All right, so we're going to start in desktop mode here and just looking at the headline and the sub headline, the hero shot. Everything looks OK here. I make my hero shot a little bit larger so that it fills out more of the space there. I'm not going to keep this hero shot, of course. Let's do 100 in mobile, of course, in desktop. Definitely do 100% of the width in there as well. OK, I'm going to refresh that just to fill out. There we go. Just looks a little bit more natural there. OK, good. We've got the line spacing between these. OK, that's OK. There were blue dots showing in the editor here on these. I do not know why. Let's see here. The bullet point dot. That'll do like green checkmarks. That's kind of big. Let's change these to checks. Let's do something like this. And let's change that to green. Yeah, I like that. All right, so let's do the same here. OK, yeah, that's great. OK, so now that we've got that fixed up, let's publish that and we'll take a look at those checkmarks. Just see those showing up. I'm going to refresh this one. OK, nice. So we've now got three green checkmarks. That looks good. Watch shocking video now. Click now to watch. All right, we're going to put in our own hero. Everything else is looking pretty good here. This section right here. Let's see. Yeah, this line height right here. I want a space between, but these are very, very large. So I'm going to say like 1.3 and I think that's going to be better for that spacing. So I want a space between, but I don't want giant gaps between those lines. And these are a little too large. I just want like a single line space between them. OK, so that's better. And you believe I could make that text a little larger. Both this sub headline, though, that's kind of working well on that line. This text, we could bump it up, that font up a size here to, let's say, 20. OK, and I want to get everything pretty well set for this page because this is going to be the base for our page and we're going to use this and duplicate it to put in the rest of our page copy. So the different angles, we're going to use this one and duplicate it. So we want to get it edited up in a way that we basically just have to copy and paste the other ones in. So that's why I'm taking the time to get this looking exactly the way that I want it. I'm going to leave that one. It's pretty good there. It doesn't split over into three lines in the desktop, which is good. So I think having a slightly smaller font size for that is OK. All right. Yeah, just up a notch on there and the spacing. That's good. That's better. It doesn't feel like unnatural spacing now. OK, I think that's looking pretty good. It's very clean. It's very simple. And now I'm going to control shift I on my desktop. You can also do this by going to the developer tools and then looking at this responsive. So clicking here, let me go back and I'll show you the other way to get in here. So up in here, this browser three dots here and you can come down to more tools and then the developer tools down here at the bottom. And you can see the shortcut is control shift I. That's what I did. And then if you are in desktop mode, it may look like this and you just need to look for this little icon that looks kind of like a little laptop and a mobile device and click on that. And then up at the top here, you can choose which of these devices you want to look at. I use the smallest, the iPhone SE right at the top. And that'll work just fine. And now what I'm looking for is I want to make sure that on mobile view I get more than the hero in here. So headline subheadline hero shot plus a little bit in mobile. My subheadline is looking like it's a little large, so I'll probably make that font a little smaller in mobile. Look at the lines here. I wonder why you make a feeling heavier than you went to bed. Now the spacing here is not great between those elements. So let's go ahead and make those changes as I go. I'm going here and I'm going to go here, but I'm going to go to the mobile view on this one. We want to just do the mobile font size, not the desktop font size and the mobile font size. I may want that to be like 17 and then the spacing here. Let's see here. This is in the styles. I don't have much there. OK, so at the bottom, I just want to add a little bit of margin here. The 10 pixels will be plenty just to break that up a little bit at the top here. I'm going to actually make this negative 10 and negative 10 will not let me do that. Yeah, margin. OK, in the padding, the padding won't allow me to, but the margin will allow me to go negative 10 pixels, which will reduce that. So I'm going to publish those changes and we will take a look over here. OK, so that's working a little better. Fitting in. OK, tap now to watch. Spacing on this is better. I like that better. All right. This font is looking good. Mobile spacing is looking good. This is looking good. OK, let's shocking video now. All right, so that's all looking good. The only other thing that we really need to do at this point is to get our hero shot in here. And so we're going to go ahead and upload that hero shot. OK, to put in our hero shot, I'm going


---
Title: CLICKBANK ONLY - DIYTrax ClickBank IPN Integration
Video ID: WWEaNrlP_JjTkRxO

In this video, I'm going to show you how to connect your ClickBank account to your DIYtracks account so that the conversions will post back into ClickBank and you'll have the sales in ClickBank show up in DIYtracks. This is only necessary if you are promoting a ClickBank product. So if you're promoting a MediaMavens product, you can skip this step. But if you are promoting any sort of ClickBank product, then this is going to be important. Otherwise, you won't have your conversions show up in DIYtracks in your campaigns. Even though the conversions will show up in your ClickBank account, you won't know what ads or landing pages were responsible for those sales. So to connect your DIYtracks and your ClickBank accounts, it's very simple. Come over here to the left menu and choose this postback URLs. And then the third option down here, you will see a ClickBank IPN. And then you see this little question mark right here. Click on this little question mark. It's going to pop up this overlay with a video in here. And this video right here is going to walk you through everything you need to know about connecting your DIYtracks account to your ClickBank account. It's called an IPN. And so this is integrating your ClickBank account and your DIYtracks account so that the conversions, the purchases that you get in your ClickBank account show up in your DIYtracks campaign and you're able to tell what ad banners and what landing pages, what marketing assets led to those purchases. So follow the instructions in this video and that will get your ClickBank account connected to your DIYtracks account.


---
Title: CROPBOT (1)
Video ID: zIbcTMBKHnyz_UOo

Welcome back to the cutting edge of digital marketing tools. I'm the BTS team, and today I'm excited to showcase a tool that will significantly streamline your creative process. Introducing CropBot, the Chrome extension that's going to revolutionize how you crop and resize images for your campaigns. We all know the frustration of finding the perfect image for your project, only to realize it doesn't fit your required dimensions. With CropBot, those days are over. Developed to work seamlessly with images sourced by ScrapeBot, CropBot ensures every image is campaign-ready in just a few clicks. Using CropBot is incredibly straightforward. Once you've gathered your images with ScrapeBot, CropBot allows you to easily adjust their size and aspect ratio to meet the exact specifications of your campaign. Whether it's for a banner, an advertorial page, or social media, CropBot makes precision edits effortless. And it doesn't stop there. CropBot is part of a powerful trio that includes ScrapeBot for image sourcing and PixelPress for campaign assembly. Together, they form a seamless workflow that makes banner creation not just easy, but enjoyable. Imagine the time and resources you'll save when every image you use is precisely cropped and resized without ever leaving your browser. CropBot not only enhances the visual appeal of your campaigns, but also significantly speeds up your production time. CropBot is more than just a tool. It's a necessity for anyone looking to optimize their digital marketing efforts. Say goodbye to the tedious task of image editing and hello to more time focusing on what truly matters. Creating impactful, engaging content for your audience. With CropBot, we're not just cropping images. We're shaping the future of digital marketing.


---
Title: Clone Flexy Website
Video ID: IzMEPS8WJNNDkGyI

In this video, I'm going to show you how to clone the template website in Flexi so that you can set up your landing pages in your own website. First, when you log into your Flexi account on the left, you will locate sites on the left-hand navigation. Click on that. And then up here, it'll automatically default to funnels. You want to click on websites next to it. Then in websites, you may see a couple of folders here, Cutting Edge and the Consumer Watchdog. If you're running gadgets, you might want to set up on the cutting edge. If you're running more of health products, weight loss, beauty, pain, something like that, a supplement, we're going to want to do the Consumer Watchdog. Click into this folder. Here you may see multiple versions. You may see only one. It just depends on when your account was created. You want to just find the latest and notice that they say copy me. So we're going to take the Consumer Watchdog 2.40 copy me. We're going to click on the three dots on the right-hand side here. And we are going to click clone. Then you are going to name this. So my name live website. Now, it doesn't matter what you name it. All right. And obviously this would probably be your name would be a great idea. Okay. Instead of my name, your actual name. And then label it so that you know, this is the one that you're going to run your campaigns out of. So you're going to run them out of this website and then hit confirm. And it will work on cloning this website for you. And notice here, you're going to see it's up to two pages. You had a notification at the top says cloning in progress. If you refresh this, you'll see this number increase. And here you can see it's up to 19 pages. Now it'll get all the way up to the 34 pages that are in this initial template. So you just wait for that. And when it finishes, you'll be ready to get in there and start setting up your landing pages. So that's how you clone a template website in order to create the website out of which you will run your live landing pages for your campaigns. In the next video, I will show you how to add and attach a subdomain to your website for your landing pages.


---
Title: Clone Page Into Any Website
Video ID: OXyleetSN5oaX1n8

In this video, I'm going to show you how to clone a page from one website into any other website in your account. So this might be because when you created your live website to run, you created it with one of the earlier versions, like a 4.0, and now we've gone on to a 4.2 version and there's a new template in there that you would like to use for one of the pages. I will show you how to get that. Or perhaps you spent a lot of time customizing yours in Cutting Edge, and now you realize, actually, this is a supplement in a health space product and I should probably transition over to Consumer Watchdog, but I don't want to have to rebuild this page entirely. You can just clone the page from one website over into another. So here I'm in this template, Cutting Edge 4.2. Let's say that you spent a lot of time updating this page right here, and you really worked on your landing page, and now it's in the cutting edge and it should really be over in the Consumer Watchdog. Do not panic. You can move it over to your Consumer Watchdog and then just change out the branding by doing this. You can clone this one. And then over here on the right where it says, please select location. Instead of in this website, we're going to move, we're just going to put the clone into our other one here. And we're going to do right into the live run campaigns here. And I didn't name it Consumer Watchdog, but this is the Consumer Watchdog live website, run campaigns here. I'm going to click that on that one where Consumer Watchdog is. And now I'm just going to add that page to the selected website. So again, it could be because we rolled out some new templates and then you would like to use them. You do not need to create a whole brand new website, do another clone of the whole website. You can just take the page that you wish to clone out. And now if I go out here to this, we can push the back or the websites here, back out to the websites. That was in a cutting edge 4.2. Now in here in the Consumer Watchdog, in my live website, run campaigns here, I can click into here and I should see at the very bottom this new one right here. And you'll notice that it doesn't have the Consumer Watchdog branding on it. And you're going to want to get that in there. But now you don't have to recreate the entire page and you can see it's now in the correct subdomain and ConsumerWatchdog.io domain. So it's been pulled over here and cloned into this website. And we would just want to make sure that we go get the branding, like off of this one with the Consumer Watchdog logo and that type of thing, and put it here on this page. And so we would just edit that page and make sure that we get the logo image onto the top of that page so that it matches the Consumer Watchdog. And now our domain matches. And just make sure that there's no other things that are off about it in the footer, but that is it. So that is how you clone a page from one website into any other website. You could do the same going the other way. So once again, let's show this from Consumer Watchdog. Let's say that there's a brand new template that's been rolled out in the 2.4 and it's not in your live website. And you say, oh, I would like this Java bird. We'll clone this, select my location. This should automatically just go to the one account for you. And then choose your live website, run the campaign here. All right, should actually be your name. And it's your Consumer Watchdog live website and add the page to that website. That is all there is to it. Your page will now automagically be added to your actual live campaign website with your custom URL and everything on there, your subdomain and the consumerwatchdog.io domain on that page. All right, that's how you clone one Flexi page onto any other website within your account.


---
Title: Cloned Flexy 1 - What You Need for Cloned Flexy Page Test
Video ID: vVV94Tpe4UmcL7GK

In this video, we're going to talk about what you need to have out, the assets that you need at your fingertips, if you're going to run a split test using cloned Flexi landing pages. First off, you're going to need your advertorial that is all optimized, or your bridge or jump page, whatever landing page that you're using, you need the optimized copy of that that you've already set up, as per the previous video on getting your landing page base copy optimized. That will save us a lot of work when we go ahead and clone this thing and make different variants of it. And then, of course, you're going to need the assets that you're going to put in here for your split test. So if those are headlines that you're testing, if you have additional leads or body copy or any other elements, if you've got hero shots that you are placing in here, have those in a folder ready to upload and ready to be used. Any other elements or assets that you're going to be adding to the pages in order to run your test on those, you'll want to have those available and handy at your fingertips. But that is really all you need, your Flexi account open, your base optimized advertorial, and any assets, text or image that you may add to your split test pages. That's what you need to have out and ready to go. In the next video, I will show you how to make a clone of your current base optimized landing page and begin to edit that.


---
Title: Cloned Flexy 2 - How to Duplicate Your Base Flexy Page
Video ID: 9CyT5LjOxb05JpQC

In this video, I'm going to show you how to clone your base optimized landing page so that you can create your first landing page test variant. Come to the card that has your known optimized base landing page, find the three little dots in the upper right-hand corner and click on those, and you will see the clone option. Click on clone and click clone page in this website. Once that completes, you will then see a cloned copy at the very bottom. You should now click on the three dots here and come up to the settings. And I'm going to, next to my name, just call this V2 while leaving the rest of that name the same. You may notice that you have a string of numbers here at the end of the path. If you want, you may leave that, or because this string for this path needs to be unique and we cloned the other one, this part right here would need to be edited. So you would need to make some sort of small tweak to the wording in order to make this path unique. The way the software automatically does it is by adding a string of digits to the end to make that path unique. You could simply, for example, instead of saying wards off, we could say prevents mosquito bites, and then I can update that page. It doesn't matter too much if you leave those numbers on there. You just need to have a unique path for that. So that's how you set up your second variant page by cloning your base optimized page. And in the next video, I'll show you how we can edit that page, make changes to it for our split test.


---
Title: Cloned Flexy 3 - How to Change The Headline and Hero Shot
Video ID: dm_m3OIGanqB3lEC

In this video, I'm going to show you how to make initial edits to your new page variant by changing out the hero shot and the headline. In this card, you will see for your second variant edit in blue toward the bottom left of the card, click on that, and it will open up the page editor. And once your editor loads, you have your headline up at the top, and when hovering, you can see you get an orange box over the top of it. And so if we click into that, now changing out this headline is fairly simple. Simply come over and get my other headline variant. I'm going to copy that. I'll come back over here. I will select all of this, and I will paste in my new variant by I'm using control shift V to paste it in in plain text, the same formatting that's already in here. And now for the hero shot, it's a similar type of thing. We can click on to select this hero shot. And in the far right bar here, you'll see under image, if this is drop down the image URL. If this happens to be collapsed, you'll see this arrows pointing here toward image. You can click on it to expand, and now you'll see that. The little image icon to the right here is what you want to click on to change this out. And now you can upload your files either by dragging and dropping. So if you have your folder of files, you can, for example, drag and drop into this main media bin. Or as you can see, I've set up a folder. You can create a folder by clicking this icon for a folder here. And once you've set up that folder, you can then upload the files to that folder. As you can see, I've already uploaded all of the files to this folder. So either way, there's not a right or wrong way to do it. I like to keep things organized into folders. You want to have your image uploaded in there and wherever you've put the image, and you want to click on it so that you have the little blue check mark. And now we're going to click this insert media in the bottom right hand, and you should see that image swap out. So now we've swapped out the headline and the hero shot. In order to preserve the changes, we're going to want to click this little save icon here. It looks like a floppy disk. And saving is an internal function, but it does not publish the changes to the live page. It only saves it inside. So if you want those changes to be reflected at that page URL, you will need to also click this publish button. And once it has finished publishing, you can click on this URL at the top and that will open that page in a new tab. And here you should see the new headline that you've implemented and the new hero shot. And you'll have your control page here has the old first control headline and control hero shot. And now this second variant has your second headline and second hero shot that you are pairing together on your landing page. So that's how you make, save and publish those initial edits to the landing page. In the next video, I'll show you how to do some further edits to this landing page.


---
Title: Cloned Flexy 4 - Further Page Edits
Video ID: QuyODVJp2kIu5w8u

In this video, we're going to talk about making some additional changes to this landing page variant. One of the big differences that you may notice in this second landing page variant versus the control is that our hero here appears to be a female and not a male. And so, likely, in this advertorial, we have some mentions that might indicate male. We might have masculine pronouns, a masculine name, and we may want to change those over for continuity's sake for our female. So, for example, we have our teacher, Paul Lambert. And so I may simply want to change that name to Paula. And so now we've got a female or feminine name that goes with the picture to Paula. Likewise, any references to his, we might want to change to hers or him to her, he to her, those type of things. And so we'll want to just swap out any references there. You may have other things that you're trying to test. So you may have differences in length where you're deleting sections, moving sections, swapping out additional images, adding new different images, changing text, swapping out the lead, which would be the text in this initial section here. Whatever it may be, the other changes that you might be making, we can make those. For me, I'm going to make some of those changes to the text here as far as where the name and the pronouns need to be swapped out. So one of the ways that we can do that here is I can do a control F. We'll bring up a search function here. And because I've got Paul highlighted, it's going to search for Paul. You could type that in. And now down the page here and we can find that first one is located under this image here and it will highlight and make these easy to find within your editor. You can use the same control F to bring up your search function and look for these in here. And I'm just going to go through here and add these. Okay, so now every instance here says Paula instead of Paul. And so we've changed out all of those. I can then look for him. All right, and then he, I'm going to change these out by saying she. So you can see it's highlighted all of these and it just makes it a whole lot faster for me to be able to find all of those changes and possibly his. Okay, so I'm gonna put a space in front and after, and that way we get just the word his instead of alternatives there. I'm just going through and I'm swapping out all of these references here so that it matches my hero. All right, and now I have swapped out all of those references, pronouns changed from masculine to feminine, the name changed from Paul to Paula, and any other edits that I want to make to this version of my landing page, I'm going to go through and make those. And then of course, we are going to click publish in order to make those edits live at the live page URL. And once it's been published, we can click on this to open up the page. And now you can control F. We can see all of these instances have now become Paula, Paula, Paula. So they are all Paula and no longer Paul. And there are no more references to his and no more references to he. Instead, they are all her, that space there, her, her, her. Okay, and she, all right, she, she, she. All right, so now it all matches. And so now I've got the further edits done on this landing page. Anything else that you want to swap out on your landing page, make those edits and then publish them. That's how you make further edits to your landing page.


---
Title: Cloned Flexy 5 - Cloning and Editing More Landing Page Variants
Video ID: RgUYPGwKILAZmjXw

In this video, we're going to talk about cloning and creating more page variants after you've edited your first new variant. So variant number two, including your control, you want to be somewhat strategic about this. So we have our page, our variant two that we just made with a female avatar for the hero, and we've gone through and changed pronouns and the name and all to match female. Our original has a male hero, and so when we clone the pages, it would behoove us to be strategic about that and grab the variant that matches best to the next landing page that we are creating. So for example, if you look at the heroes that I've got, I've got three female hero shots and one male. And so when I create the hero three and this hero for the fourth one, I want to make sure that these all have the female pronouns and the female name already in there so that I don't have to duplicate that again. Likewise, for the male hero here, I'm going to duplicate my original page so that I have the male name and male pronouns in there. So I'm going to go ahead and go back. And since my next one up that I'm going to make has a female hero as well, I'm going to go ahead and clone my V2 page because that's the one where I put the female hero and changed those pronouns over. So just be strategic. It doesn't really matter which one you clone, but you will save yourself a lot of work if you use the copy that is closest to what you are testing in your next page variant. I'm going to leave those numbers in that string for now. This is just a demo. And so for me, I have a total of five landing pages that I need to create. So my control plus four more. So I'll go ahead and create all of those. However many you have, you may have as many as 10. They may all be completely different angles, have completely different body text, headlines, hero shots. It might all be different for all 10 of your pages. If that's the case, go ahead and create those. Create all of your landing page variants here by I suggest cloning your current optimized page and then swapping out elements in order to achieve your next variant. I'm going to go ahead and create all the variants and then I will show you how we're going to gather together the URLs for these pages so that we can have them ready to use in our DIY tracks campaign.


---
Title: Cloned Flexy 6 - Gathering Your Landing Page Variant URLs for Use In DIYTrax
Video ID: swwkNSG0ynndOY1y

In this video, I'm going to show you how to gather the URLs of your landing page variants so that we have those ready to upload and use in our DIY tracks campaign. The first thing that I like to have is this plain text editor. I have a notepad open, so whatever plain text editor you have, have this document out and open. I'm going to move this over to my other screen, but I will be placing URLs into that. Then we're going to come to our pages card here, and we're going to just open all these up and then copy and paste the URLs. So I'm going to use this little preview link arrow right here to open the page. That's the first one. And I'm just going to go through my V2 and my V3, V4, and V5. I'm opening up all of mine. You should open any that you have, however many of these that you have. I'm going to select that URL. I'm going to copy it. I'm using Ctrl C on my keyboard, and then in my notepad file, I'm going to Ctrl V to paste it in. Go down to the next line here, and I'm going to grab the next one. Again, select that domain URL, Ctrl C, paste this in, and I'll do the same for each of the other URLs for a total of five. And so now you can see that I have my five page URLs in here. They're all different, and they all align with the five variants of this page. And you can see this last one has the word his in the headline, and so that matches with my male hero shot. The others have female hero shots in there other than the control, which also has the male hero. So now I have my URLs gathered into this file, and we can save that in the location where you can find it and keep it handy. We're going to use this in just a moment and put these URLs in our DIY tracks campaign.


---
Title: Cloned Flexy 7 - Adding Your Landing Page Variant URLs to Your DIYTrax Campaign
Video ID: Wxzys0K7kkonlcJH

In this video, I'm going to show you how to add your landing page variant URLs to your DIY Tracks campaign. So you need to open up your DIY Tracks and come into the campaign that you've set up for this. In this case, it's my skeeter stripe demo. And when that opens, then you want to come over to the landing page tab here and click on that. And then here we have this add button. You want to click on that add button and then you'll have your file handy with your landing page URLs. You want to copy this first one and control C here. And I'm going to put this in here. Control V. So I'm pasting that URL in. So you can see here's the whole domain. Scroll through. There's the domain. All right. And this is Skeeter LP1 control mail. Once you've given it a name, the share percentage, it's going to be evenly divided across all of your landing pages. I have five and so they're going to be a 20% a piece. You can do division on yours or you can put in a random number and we'll set equal share afterwards. That's fine. Active. Yes. And then click add. And so now we have our first landing page. We can go ahead and click the add button again to add the second one. OK, we grab our second URL, highlighting, copying, pasting in, making the name, share percentage, active and add. And we'll do the same for three, four and five. OK. And once you have added all of your landing pages successfully, you will see them in here. If you happen to have a different share percentage on these or they're not evenly distributed, you can simply upload them all and click this button to set equal share. Mine are all active. They have blue dots. You could click on them if any of yours were inactive and activate them. Now that we've added all of these, we have our landing pages done and they are ready. As far as our DIY tracks campaign is concerned, the landing pages portion of that is set and ready to run. We still have some other things in our campaign that we need to configure before we're ready to run, but we are all set as far as the landing pages go.


---
Title: Cloning Your Advertorial Page
Video ID: UVFmPFn1iBXFAx2w

In this video, I'm going to show you how to find and set up the correct advertorial for your chosen product. Now remember we chose Skeeter Strike, and so if you come into your Flexi account over here, click on sites in the left-hand navigation, then websites in the top navigation. We're doing gadgets, so we're going to go into the cutting edge, and then we have our most recent version. Remember we cloned the most recent version of this and named it so that we recognize where the site is. And then if we scroll down, the most recent will be at the bottom. And so we can ignore some of these. We have some older advertorials here at the top, and toward the bottom is where we will have all the new stuff where you can see it says advertorial after them. And so we are simply looking for the Skeeter Strike advertorial. Here it is. And so once we locate that most recent Skeeter Strike advertorial, we want to go ahead and click these three little dots here and clone, and then simply click clone page in this website. And now if we scroll down to the bottom to find our most recent once again, there you can see your Skeeter Strike advertorial is being cloned here. And now you can change this so that you recognize it. Skeeter Strike advertorial. Get rid of that. Okay. And then here on this URL, I simply want to get rid of these numbers. I'm going to get rid of this so that I have a unique page here, and then I'm going to update that. And now we can preview this, and here is our base advertorial initially set up and almost ready to go. There are a few other things that we need to do to configure this and make sure that it is ready to run. So now that we have the advertorial cloned in our account, we will start working on creating the split test variants for this advertorial, and I'll cover that in the next video.


---
Title: Connect Domain To Website
Video ID: nYbDR3KQGg6ZhWiD

In this video, I'm going to show you how to connect your custom domain with your subdomain to a live website, your live website, where you will be testing your landing pages. And this is only if you did not do it in the step where we had the setup adding the domain into the account, and then we could choose to associate it with a website. We already did that with Consumer Watchdog, and so now when we come into this Consumer Watchdog one and we open up any of these templates here, I'll just open this one up, what you're going to see here, once again, is your subdomain.consumerwatchdog.io. And hopefully yours doesn't say your subdomain, but is rather actually another subdomain that belongs to you, unique to you. But you should see this. So you should see your subdomain.consumerwatchdog.io already attached to this website. Now, we did not connect the cutting edge during that setup, and so I'm going to come into this folder, and I created a clone once again, my name, cutting edge live, run gadgets here. I'm going to click on these three little dots over here and click on edit at the top. And then in this line of menu, we're going to click on settings. And then top right here where it says domain in this dropdown says please select a domain, pull the dropdown, and this is the cutting edge website. So we're going to choose our subdomain.thecuttingedge.today URL, this domain that we added with our subdomain, and I'm going to scroll down and click save. And now what we should see is once again that we have our subdomain in the address bar up here, your subdomain.thecuttingedge.today. All right. That's what you should be looking for there. Now, what it would look like if we did not connect is one of these templates that we copied. So we copied over this 4.2. But if I go into the template version, notice when I open up any of these stat pages here, cardiologists was the same page here. If I click on that preview link, notice this says dashboard.getflexi.app. That's what it will look like if you have not connected a domain to your website yet. So once you have connected it, it should look like this, your subdomain.thecuttingedge.today. If you have not connected it successfully, then it will read this dashboard.getflexi.app, in which case you will need to follow the steps that I outlined earlier in this video for connecting the domain, the proper domain, by going to the settings tab and choosing the domain. That ends this video on connecting a domain to your website for your landing pages.


---
Title: Copy Blocks Training 2
Video ID: x2mY7I97jV5eakzw

I apologize to my regulars on my Cyborg call. You're going to get a little bit of a repeat, but I have expanded, expanded the training. We're going to look at a concept today called copy blocks. So for about the next 20 minutes, this is a little bit of a deal we're going to go through. Those of you that did see this on my Cyborg call, this is helpful, a helpful concept. Do you like this? Absolutely. Highly. I thought it was very helpful. I'm still using it right now. Yeah, I've been using it too. Nice. OK. Fantastic. All right. So this is a little bit of an academic exercise, and the model taps out at a certain point for sure. When it comes to headlines, I find this is highly applicable. Leads. And it can be a useful tool for looking at longer pieces of copy, but it, you know, it isn't a complete system in and of itself, but it is a fun way to look at copy that I think can be helpful. This idea and the name of it, copy blocks, is not mine. This is actually from a terrific copywriter named Luke Iha, and he coined this phrase and he talks about this as like writing with and using Lego blocks to assemble copy. So that's his. And this is actually his headline. So this is a pretty strong headline. Nine figure copywriter reveals new wildcard copywriter method that allows struggling freelancers to land high paying clients and make 10K plus a month without cold out cold outreach, excuse me, Upwork or job boards. All right. So if you were on my Cyborg call, maybe limit your participation to those until those who were not there have run out of answers. But what are some elements that you see here that that make this a strong headline? Anybody? Somebody? The nine figure. Okay. Or, you know, the wild card, you know, all these different like things that people want. The nine figure copywriter, you know, people want to make a lot more money. This 10K a month again on making more money. The struggling freelancers is what sticks out for me. Okay. Nice. Yeah. Landing high paying clients. So this works. Okay. Yeah. What would we, how would we describe some of these elements? If we're going to put descriptors to these elements so we could use similar elements. How might we describe the nine figure copywriter and the role that that phrase is playing in this headline? Enticers. Okay. That's an enticer. Okay. Or a goal. It's an authority figure. Okay. A couple of people are saying authority figure. Sure. Yeah. So I think, I think this is definitely in this case, although it could be, you know, what you want to achieve or aspirational or something like that. In this case, I think it, it most likely plays the role of authority or credibility. It adds a layer of believability that somebody who is a nine figure copywriter would be somebody you'd want to pay attention to if you're interested in copywriting type stuff. Nice. What about land high paying clients and make 10K a month? More of a call out, wouldn't that be to your audience? Okay. What do you mean by call out? Well, if you're looking to attract that kind of avatar that's looking to do that, that's basically giving you the results that you're, you know, hoping to offer. Okay. Yeah. I would see that as a goal. Okay. Results, goal. Okay. Results. Yeah. Results. Okay. I could see a benefit, like what they're looking for. Benefit. Yeah. Nice. All right. There we go. All right. So benefits, results, goal. Yeah. Great. Final result. Yeah. Final final result. Okay. Yeah. I've noticed there's no nothing in this headline that indicates the process the person is going to go through to achieve those results. You're mainly holding the authority figure and then the results right afterward. It's kind of noticeable. Okay. No process. You know, actually, I see the, wait a minute. Oh, the struggling freelancers as the pain and the land high paying clients and everything as the answer. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Interesting. Okay. Struggling freelancers be painful. Yeah. Good pain. Okay. What about this new wildcard copywriter method? Curiosity. Oh, okay. Curiosity. Nice. Hell yeah. That's your process. OK. The path you have to take to go that this nine figure copywriter is going to reveal to you to get to those high paying clients and the 10K. OK. Yeah. Fantastic. This is a classic headline for my PRO method, person, problem, pain, results, and then offer takes you right to it. OK. Nice. How about this stuff without cold outreach, Upwork or job boards? Now you've differentiated your offer from the other offers that are out there to give you kind of a leading edge against everything else offering that. OK. It makes it sound like it's easier too. OK. Interesting. There's also pain points because people have probably tried doing the cold outreach and that's why they're struggling freelancers because they tried Upwork or job boards and all of this stuff. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. OK. Yeah. Really good stuff. So fantastic. Good things. And you can see that it has so many of these different pieces and elements. And so we're going to look at here. I'm going to use a combination of symbols, but we're going to use these labels as a promise block, a pain block, a proof block, a constraint block and curiosity block. Right. And again, those are Luke's names for these, not mine. However, I did come up with this bracketing convention right here, which I am quite proud of. I spent some time on that. It is quite robust and it works. It works quite well. And so this is a format that will work within plain text documents, these docs. It'll work if you're working with ChatGPT or Claude or something like that. And they're very easy to remove from a document. You could search and replace those completely. Plus they have this added benefit right here where it looks like there's additional space there, but it's not. This is a bracket. And so there's not additional space there before the P. It's just this one character. And so it helps to separate things. We're going to use these to block these off. And so in our sample headline, let's see if I can get all of those and the headline here, the headline that we looked at, the nine figure copywriter, that would be a proof block. They're going to reveal this new wildcard copywriter method, which is indeed a curiosity block that was thrown out there. That was a curiosity that allows struggling freelancers. So pain, somebody nailed that one as well. And then a promise block here, which we definitely nailed the encompasses that idea of a result, a goal, a benefit, that type of thing. So definitely a promise there, a solution, you know, those types of things. And then this without cold upreach outreach. Sorry, I keep saying Upreach and I don't know why. It might be because my four year old had me up till two thirty in the morning and then got up extremely early this morning again. So I didn't get a lot of sleep last night. My words may get tangled together. So be warned what I'm saying may be incoherent. If that happens, somebody can just stop me and kick me out and take over the call. But these would be constraints. So these are constraints. Constraints can come in many forms and fashions. You might have an identity constraint. You might have a resource constraint. You might have belief constraints, these type of things. And basically, those would come out of or might be the objections.
 to this, you know, it won't work for me because, or I don't want to do that because I don't want to have to do this or that. And so we've got these proof, curiosity, pain, promise, and constraint block. And notice that this headline has all of them. And so one of the ways that you can make headlines that may not be as strong is to look at them, analyze, and see, all right, what blocks, copy blocks, might this headline be missing that I could add in here to strengthen this? And so it's not that you always have to have every single type of copy block in a headline in order to have a strong headline, but this can be one way to strengthen a weak headline is to simply look at, all right, what am I missing for copy blocks, and where can I add that in or bolster it, you know, make these stronger. So let's give a little metaphor because I know it might be difficult to wrap your head around what each of these copy blocks are from that. It's been a very short explanation up to this point. So here's a metaphor for this. So imagine the prospective customer, your customer avatar is on one side of a canyon. So they're on pain plateau. All right. And they're trying to get to the other side, the promised land. And you have a bridge that can take them there. The pain block is where they're currently at. So they're on pain plateau. That's that pain block where they're currently at located without your offer. They're experiencing the pain of where they're at in quotes there because it's either physically, psychologically, emotionally, metaphorically, where they're at with their desired result. All right. So these are the primary complaints, secondary complaints, tertiary complaints around their pressing problem. All right. So all the things that they are not enjoying about their life because of this this problem. The promise block that's the promised land. That's where they are going. And I'm going to turn off Grammarly because it's going to. Be annoying here. Promise block describes where they're going, where they want to go. This is their desired end result. This is what they want. And the curiosity block is like the bridge that takes the customer avatar to the promised land. All right. So this is often the unique mechanism, a phrase alluding to or hinting at the unique mechanism. This is a phrase that hints at and thus evokes curiosity around the question. And this is a very, very specific question. What is this new thing and how does it get me out of my current pain and to the promise I want? And how is it different from everything else I've tried? So it's a very specific question. It's kind of a long and lengthy question, but it's a very specific question. So curiosity blocks in this case are very, very specific type of curiosity. It's not random curiosity. It is a very specific curiosity around how does this thing take me from my pain to the promise that I want? And how is that different from anything else that I've ever tried? So it's not any random type of curiosity is a very specific form of curiosity. And then the proof block is like the trust that allows them to take that first step out on the bridge. So this is any sort of evidence that makes the promise more believable. And that can come in the form of reviews, testimonials, case studies, you name it. So social proof. So anything like that that would bolster the believability, the credibility, evidence for it, that would make this promise more believable, that is more likely that they could get it as well. That would be considered a proof block. And then the constraints are kind of like this big backpack of stuff, their mental baggage, which they need to take off before they're going to be willing to cross the bridge. They've got this big bag of mental baggage, constraints. And before they can trust themselves to move out onto that bridge, they need to be convinced to take these off and get rid of those. So these are phrases that address the reasons people feel like they can't or won't be able to experience the promised results. All right. So and they also are sometimes phrases that are dealing with those. So salespeople would call it handling the objections. So constraint block might look like the objection itself or it might look like addressing the objection. And so in this case, it's kind of doing the latter where it's saying without cold outreach, Upwork or job boards. So it's addressing those constraints and saying you don't have to do these things. So if their constraint is time, then a constraint block addressing that might be in only three minutes a day. Right. So it's not saying, oh, I don't have time. It's addressing the I don't have time constraint by saying happens in only three hours a day. All right. So this is going to be our first exercise here. I'll give you a moment to kind of read through this headline here. Portugal's most notorious playboy reveals how to go from struggling with women to effortlessly dating high quality nines and tens using the automatic attraction system. It works without being rich, famous or even good looking. All right. So give you give you a moment here to go through and see if you can identify. You can do this. Do this for yourself at first and then I'll have people shout out some answers here. So you can be ready. Jeopardy theme going, huh? Oh, I'm sorry. OK. That's all right, Meg. No, it's fantastic. We had a little music to work by. So let's see here. Yeah, don't don't worry. This is this is just a learning exercise. So it's not important whether you get it right or wrong. It's whether you learn something or not. So this isn't a test. It's not school. As long as you learn, you're winning. I mean, the right direction. All right. Let's all right. Start off. All right. What does somebody see as a block that they want to point out? Christy, you got a hand up. Go for it. I've got a lot of blocks. I just don't know if I'm only to pick one. Sure. Let's just start with one. We'll give some. Well, the end. Sorry. I'll do the curiosity block. The automatic attraction system, I think, is the curiosity block. OK, I would agree. That would be a curiosity block. All right. The end. Works without being rich, famous or even good looking would be the constraint. Yeah. OK. Love it. Good, good. What else do we see? Pain block struggling with women. OK, a pain block. Let's see here. All right. Struggling with women. Yeah, absolutely. OK. Promise block. OK, promise block. Effortlessly dating high quality nines and tens. Yeah. Effortless dating nine high quality nines and tens. Shout it out there, Mary. The proof block is the most notorious. From Portugal's most notorious playboy. All right. That's the what? Proof block. Yeah. Portugal's most notorious. Yeah, that's a proof block. OK. We miss anything? What happened to curiosity? What happened to curiosity? Automatic attraction system. Automatic attraction. Yeah, it my. You marked it. It's the headline. As we add these in, it's in the headline. And so things are getting a little wonky looking. Yeah. So it's there. It just got a little, little rearranged. OK, fantastic. So yeah, yeah. You guys are experts at this already. So a few things that I might point out. OK, notice this Portugal's most notorious playboy. Notice that that we mark this as a proof block. However, if you were in any other market other than young men interested in dating women, this will probably not be a proof block. Right. This will probably be the the anti proof block. This is this is not somebody you're listening to. Right. A notorious playboy. So be aware that all of these are very context specific. They're offer specific. They're customer avatar specific. And so what is a proof block for one offer or one customer avatar might be the exact opposite. It might be an anti credential. You'll see this often in the health space. So if your offer is more of an alternative health offer, the established scientific and medical communities may be pegged as the enemy. They're the they're the terrible people who are doing.
 All these terrible things and keeping you in the dark and just want to keep you on drugs and cut you open with their scalpels and these type of things. And so like doctor or scientist or medical community or whatnot in that sense becomes an enemy and it's not a proof block. Whereas if you have an offer in that space that relies on more scientific evidence, medical community, the authority of doctors to prove how valuable this is, then that becomes a proof block in that case. And so it's not that a specific term, phrase or whatever is always going to be one of these type of blocks. It's going to be context specific to your offer, to your avatar. Can these blocks go in any order in a headline? Yeah, great question. Yes. Pretty much no specific arrangement that you have to have. So have them in different orders. All right. Then we nailed this. What was the answer there? I'm going to skip this one. This is an ancient tribe. And I'm going to go to something more like this. Some of these are from some of our products and advertorials. So the 62 year old woman thought she'd never dance again due to neuropathy, but she found relief without medication or surgery. What do we see there? Pain block is never dance again due to neuropathy. Or never dance again. And due to neuropathy, wouldn't that be constraint? That's a pain. So what are we thinking? After the never dance again or including the due to neuropathy? I think never dance again would be the pain and the neuropathy would be the constraint. Okay. Interesting. Okay. That is a constraint. All right. So let's talk about that a little bit here. I got something real quick. How come wouldn't the neuropathy be part of the pain itself and then without medication or surgery be the constraint? Okay. Why? Well, the pain is that you have a neuropathy problem. And why is that? Whatever that pain that is, but anyways, but your constraint is well, I mean, I just, I don't mean it, it never dance again due to neuropathy. I would see the whole thing is the pain. I'm trying to, I'm trying to get to why? Oh, well, you never get to dance again. Uh, yes, I don't. Um, so I mean more in, in this case, why would that be pain instead of constraint? What's specific about this situation that would make that? There's lots of things that would not allow you to dance. So that's just a pain point, but there's, so when you look at what are the different constraints, neuropathy could be one. Maybe she's a paraplegic, could be another. So I think the constraint would be the neuropathy and the pain would be the never dance again. Okay. Okay. Can I add something? Go for it. The 62 year old woman would definitely be the promise block, but the neuropathy goes part and parcel with that because that in this context is what makes her the promise block in any other context, it would not. Okay. Interesting. Okay. I see a promise block. Like, is this a? The promise block is found relief, right? I'm sorry, the proof block. Excuse me. That's okay. Yep. So yeah, so I think this, this 62 year old woman is a proof block. So I want to come back to this. Why is this a proof block here? Because of her neuropathy. Okay. Sort of. She's the actual evidence. That 62 year old woman is the evidence of like, thought she'd never dance again due to the neuropathy, but found relief without medication or surgery. Okay. What type of person most specifically would find this as a credibility marker? Just this, this phrase, this 62 year old woman. So let's set aside the neuropathy and whatnot for a second, but just what type of person is most likely to find this as a. Someone who's similar in age or older. Yeah. Mature adult. Yeah, absolutely. So this is a proof block. It's a credibility marker. If this is a woman just like me, right? So if our customer avatar is going, oh, I'm 60 years old and a woman, right? So since, since our, our target demographic tends to be mostly senior women, here's another senior woman that got this result. So now that's a, that's a proof block. All right. So that, that's, that's how it lends credibility is specifically to someone who is similar to this 62 year old woman. And the closer that the customer is to that, the stronger this credibility and proof is going to be. So I, so I want to come back to this neuropathy thing, like, because it could be given the context, it could either be a constraint or it could be a pain block. What is it in this case and why? And in this case, I, I would tend to say that it is part of the pain. I still feel it's a constraint block because there's lots of reasons people might not be able to dance. Neuropathy is just one particular reason it could go hand in hand, but it's the cause of her inability to dance is the pain from the neuropathy. Okay. Yeah, that's good. So I think you're thinking, Dan, that the constraint block is without medication or surgery. And the promise block is she found relief, right? These don't have to be binary. You could have more than one. So it's not like, Oh, we've used a pain block already. We can't use that somewhere else. Or we've used the constraint block, so it couldn't be somewhere else. And sometimes these blocks actually nest within each other. So you might have one type of block nested within another type of block, which could be argued to be the case here. The neuropathy could be considered a constraint block nested within this pain block. In this case. So there, there's a little bit of, of, of, you know, interpretation here, a little artistic license in this case, uh, what I think makes this most likely part of the pain than neuropathy is that the context of the offer, which is neuro ease, which is specifically a product marketed to and targeted to our sales page. Uh, people with neuropathy as a neuropathy solution for them. So, uh, so in this case, I think it's mostly calling out their pain. It could be considered a constraint, but in this case, because we're marketing to someone with neuropathy, that neuropathy is mostly in their, um, is mostly their pain point in this case. And so I actually think the constraint block is the, the woman thought she'd so the thought she'd is the constraint. And then the curiosity block is, but she found relief, meaning she went out there and found. a solution. She went out there and was curious. Well, maybe there's a way I can do this without all this expensive stuff that they're talking about. So like her constraint in the beginning was thought she would be never be able to dance again. And then the curiosity, but she found meaning she went out and found it. Okay. So I repeated myself. Okay. It, yeah, interesting. Okay. Yeah, that's, that, that's an interesting way to look at it. Um, we could definitely look at this as, uh, this, this would be a belief constraint here. This being addressed. She thought she'd never dance again. Um, so that is definitely. And so here we see kind of nesting and overlapping ones. Um, that is, and, uh, some of our customers might be having that belief constraint. They think, oh, I'd never be able to do this again. You know, uh, dance, hike, uh, walk without a. Assistance.
 of a cane walker or something, you know, that type of thing. So yeah, definitely a constraint there. But she found relief. You're saying that's, what are you saying about that, particularly? Is the, she found relief was the what? Promise block. Okay, yeah, that's what I see it. And then without medication or surgery would be a constraint. Yeah, that's how I would see that. So found relief, that's what they'd like. And without medication or surgery. Because there's different ways to have relief. One of them is without medication or surgery. So that could be a curiosity. And how can you get relief without medication? It could, yeah. It could have a little bit of curiosity there. I think it's mostly constraint without medication or surgery. And I think we could strengthen this one a lot by adding in an actual curiosity block. Because we don't really talk about the how they're going to get there. We talk about what they don't have to do. Those would be the constraints, really. Oh, but I don't wanna take medication. That makes me hazy and whatnot. I don't wanna have surgery. Like those type of things. These are more strongly constraint blocks, but there's not really anything in there to tie this to the going from pain to promise via this mechanism. We don't really have any good curiosity here. So I think we could actually add something curiosity block. What's that? You beat it? Is that what you said? Yeah, two or three of mine beat it. Nice. Just better at headlines than I am. Maybe lucky. I'm just saying it's doable, you guys. Don't let him dissuade you. Challenge accepted. It's definitely doable. I mean, it was done, but it took some doing. It's a pretty strong headline. It's had some testing behind it. It's had a good bit of testing behind it. So, all right. So what do we see for blocks here? This will be the last one I'm gonna wrap. I'm gonna go make some burgers. Wards off mosquito bites would be your promise block. Okay, love it. Breaking would be the curiosity. Include this instantly. Wards off mosquito bites. Breaking curiosity. Okay. I would add sweeping the nation to curiosity as well. That may also be a proof block because everyone's doing it. Is it also welcome a bite-free summer a promise block? Okay, love it. Yes. Yeah, so sweeping the nation. In this case, I think it most strongly plays the function of social proof. Yeah, I agree. Credibility. Yeah. So I think that, and then a bite-free summer. Yes, please, huh? Where was I? Here I am. Another promise? Okay. Bite-free summer. Okay. Wards off. Okay. All right, so this might be some curiosity there. I don't know that I would give it that. I probably would not label this a curiosity block because again, High school teacher's device might be. Yeah. Curiosity. Uh-huh. That's where I would see more curiosity is this kind of the unique mechanism. What is this device from this Texas high school teacher, right? So that's more the curiosity block right there, is what's this high school teacher's device thing? Because again, it's the many times it's the unique mechanism, right? It's the thing that's going to transport me from my pain into the promise that I want. And so in this case, the thing that transports me from mosquito bites, right, is this Texas high school teacher's device is going to instantly ward off mosquito bites and give me a bite-free summer. So that's the how I get this thing. All right. What is conspicuously missing here? Pain block. Pain. Yeah, there's no pain here, okay? So we could definitely stick a dagger in and twist. Isn't pain kind of nested here in your curiosity? It's instantly warding off mosquito bites. Yeah, it kind of could be because it's the promise of like, which a promise is kind of the opposite, but because this is the, this is what they want, I would just hold that as a promise block. Does that make sense? missing constraint too. Yeah, and it doesn't have any constraints here. So those would be two ways that you might consider trying to beat this thing, is by, okay, what if I add some pain to this? What if I add in some constraints? So do you feel when making copy, you should try to include all five of the blocks? Because obviously you've had good luck with that particular headline. So obviously it's not always essential that all five blocks are there, but it might be something that improves overall function of the headline is having all the blocks there. Is that? Yeah, for sure. Yep. Yeah. So I would highly recommend it. There are definitely places where you cannot, you know, there's certain types of advertising and things like that where it's just not possible to have a headline that's long enough to contain every single element. That'd be the next thing because length of the headline could be a limiting factor to be able to include all five of the blocks. So sometimes you just want something, you know, short and sweet that draws our attention. Yep, absolutely. Yep. And it can be, so here you might see this where we've kind of shortened this down. I think making it concise, so this is a concept I kind of skipped over. It's really, but the velocity of copy, that's how quickly these blocks are coming at people. And so the more kind of filler words or between words or connector words or things that you have in there and sentences and phrases and things like that, the slower the velocity. So these hard hitting copy blocks get spread out more. That's not always a bad thing. And definitely when you get deeper into your copy, you tend to have a slower velocity and that's okay because you'll have, you know, story narrative like these things. So you don't necessarily have to have a velocity that's, but in a headline, in a lead, you know, in your text on a banner, you would like your velocity to be very, very high where you've got that small window to capture someone's attention. So the first,
 The video ad, the first few seconds of that video ad, your lead on that, you want to be packing in, so you want the velocity to be very fast, coming at them hard hitting with all these copy blocks and not have them spread out too much because you really got to grab their attention. So you need all the tools at your disposal. You can see here how the copy blocks can be condensed and the velocity of the copy just right to the smallest it could be. So this ancient tribe achieved effortless weight loss without the help of modern diets or exercise fads. Harvard scientists have tipped their hat to their amazing solution. So if you can't seem to lose those stubborn pounds, pay close attention because this video is the final weight loss solution you'll need to restore your youthful metabolism in less than two weeks. All right, so we've got these different blocks marked off here. Can we shorten that and increase the copy velocity? Sure. And here's one example. Can't lose weight. Harvard scientists shocked that this ancient tribal dragonberry trick reignites a stubborn metabolism practically overnight. All right, and so we can definitely increase the velocity of that copy, cut out some of the filler. They did modify this. Luke did modify this to become an ancient tribal dragonberry trick, which is a little bit stronger than just ancient tribe on the curiosity piece. And then we could increase the velocity even more. Fat, Harvard lemon drops cure fat overnight, which isn't like the worst ever, but there's maybe something to be desired there. So you could definitely overdo it by trying to cram these in and get them down there. But you can see that you could fit in every copy block in a very short span there. So not a terribly long headline, but it does, it's very succinct, but it's also a little bit over the top probably. So might not be as smooth for people. All right, I think I'll wrap it there. Any parting shots? Wait, is a copy of this or how do we, where do we find this? No way. Let me see here. Wait. Maybe copy this link and throw this in the group meeting chat. All right, that's how you find it.


---
Title: Create DIYTrax Campaign Placeholder
Video ID: mho4aMNn0kgAi3RZ

In this video, we are going to be creating a placeholder DIY tracks campaign. We should have the assets together that you want to split test. So for this demonstration, I've gathered a few things together. You may have more assets than this in your set of testing. I'm just doing a very small set here to show you how it's done conceptually, but once again, you can test more headlines, a different mixture of things here. So for my advertorial, I've gone with five headlines, the control that was already on the advertorial plus four new variants. I've gathered some hero shots here, just done very simple, so I have four new hero shots plus the control is already on the advertorial. And then I have some headlines for my banner ads. So we have these assets gathered together and now we want to start putting things together for our campaign. And so the first thing that we're going to do is set up a DIY tracks kind of placeholder campaign in order to get the link that we need to go into our advertorial so we can make sure that our advertorial is 100% set up and ready to go, as that is our first thing we want to focus on for our campaign setup. So if you come to resources and BTS software, navigate to your DIY tracks, scroll down, click access DIY tracks. I'm in a kind of a dummy account, so I'm not going to click that link, but when you do, it'll launch your DIY tracks, which will look something like this. In the top right, you're going to click this add button and that will start to create a new campaign. And we are going to give this a name. In this case, I simply used Skeeter strike demo one and you want to come down to this offer promotion right here. And if you are promoting a media mavens product, then the answer is e-commerce. That's what you want to select for a media mavens product. If you are setting up for a ClickBank offer, then you would choose other. So ClickBank choose other for media mavens devices choose e-commerce. Skeeter strike is e-commerce, so I'm going to choose that. Our traffic source here should be the response Rolodex phase two and the affiliate network here choose the appropriate affiliate network. In this case, I'm doing media mavens and not ClickBank. If you were promoting ClickBank, obviously that should be ClickBank. Next thing you want to do is come down here and whatever traffic source you chose. So in this case, it shows response Rolodex phase two selecting the macro templates. We want to choose the same macro template. It's already automatically gone to that and so that's fantastic. And so I'm now going to click save. And what you'll see is that it has applied these tokens down here at the bottom. These are called macros or tokens. They're tracking parameters for the campaign. So once you have the macros applied, there's no need to activate this at this point and there's no need to mess with any of these other tabs. At this point, we're simply going to go to the link and pixels tab here on the end and what we are looking for is this landing page offer URL, this T2 link. You can highlight it and copy it. You may click the clipboard here and you'll see copied to clipboard here. And so this is the landing page offer URL. That's what we want. This is the link that we want. And so grab that link, hold on to that. In the next video, I'll show you how to apply this link in Flexi to make sure it's in your custom values and then to make sure that this link is appropriately in your landing page, whether that's an advertorial or a jump page to a VSL. So that concludes setting up our DIY tracks campaign to get us started.


---
Title: Creating Ad Banner Variants for Testing
Video ID: omUbd7svBwfqsDLs

In this video, let's talk about setting up ad banners for your first test. So now that we've got our advertorial in place and we've collected headlines to split test against the control and we've collected hero shots to split test against the control, remember we are working back to front in our funnel. And so now that we have our advertorial set, now we need to get our marketing assets together for our ads. And this is going to be our ad banners. So what do we have for ad banners? You have three sizes that you can run in our traffic source. And those are the 970 by 250, the 300 by 250 and the 970 by 550. And you are going to need a set of likely 15 to 20 of these ad banners. No more than 20. That is a hard cap on the top limit. So you may only run 20 ad banners in a campaign at a time, but 15 to 20 of these you can mix and match on sizes. You may choose to change up the layouts on these. These are images of this size, 970 by 250. Typically we have an image here on the left size. That is a 400 by 250. And then we'll have text to the right, headline, subheadline, and maybe sometimes some body text on these, though often it may only be a headline or a subheadline on the 970 by 250 because of the size constraints. 300 by 250, typically an image and then perhaps just a headline, or you might move the image down, have a small headline on top and then some small text on the bottom. There are no hard and fast rules to the layouts of these. You may put image and text on these banners in whatever configuration you would like. Now, we do have some templates in your pixel press. So if you open up pixel press, this is one template for the 970 by 550. You can see it has an image here to the left and then headline, subheadline, and a call to action or some body text and a call to action here. Over here, you can see a 970 by 550. It has only a headline and an image. Here's a 300 by 250 with an image on top and then a headline below. Once again, the 300 by 250, 970 by 550, and the 970 by 250 are the full sizes of the image that will come out in the banners. That is the full size of the banner. However, the pictures can go anywhere on this banner. So we have other arrangements in here. And if you come to my projects and go into the templates folder, then you'll be able to see that we have several, there are three pages of templates for various sizes in here. And so you can see here is a 300 by 250. It is a vertical template where your image could be a small slice, 150 by 250 to go on the left. And then you could stick a headline and some body text and a call to action on the right. So you can configure these banners in whatever arrangement you would like, whatever you think will be effective. Once again, we have provided various base templates for you to get started and you want to put together some effective ad banners that are going to lead to your advertorial and make sense. You've put the advertorial in place. You've collected split test headlines for that advertorial. And now you want to make ad banners that when the visitor clicks through on an ad banner and lands on your advertorial, it makes sense for them that they landed on that advertorial. So you don't want to use clickbait where they are expecting to see one thing when they click through. And then when they land on that advertorial, they're disappointed because they see something else. You want the ideas to align what's in your ad banners and what's on the landing page. You don't want that to be a surprise. You want that to be as expected. And then for it to pull them in where they discover more information than what they found on your ad banner. So choose mix and match 15 to 20 of these. You may start with 15 if you want max of 20 banners of any size. You can run five banners basically and duplicate it across the sizes, across all three sizes. So you have a set of 15 banners total, but you're using the same image and headline on all three sizes. Or you can mix it up and change up your headlines and subheadlines that you use per banner. You can change the images. You can run just two of the sizes, whatever combination that you feel would provide a good first test for you. In any case, whatever banners you put together, the important thing is that the imagery and the texts that you put on the banner connect well with whatever is on your landing page in the middle. So in this case, an advertorial for doing media mavens e-commerce products. You want to make sure that the ideas on your ad banners line up well and set up the advertorial in a good way. So that when they land there, they are compelled to continue reading and then click through and make a purchase. So set up your ad banners. Just collect the images that will go on your ad banners. Collect the headlines. If you choose to use subheadlines and body text in your first test, which you do not have to. You can test only headlines in your first test if you wish. But collect the text. Collect the images. And then I suggest going through the technical videos to see how to set those up. Once again, these are the global sizes of the banners. 970 by 250, 300 by 250, 970 by 550. We have templates for certain image and text arrangements within those banners. However, you may arrange the images and the text on these banners any way you want and whatever you see fit and that you think will work well. All right, so that is it. Get to work collecting your text and your image assets for putting together your ad banners. And then we will start putting our campaign together and connecting all the technical dots and pieces and stitching it all together so that we are ready to run.


---
Title: Creating Split Test Variants for Your Advertorial
Video ID: npa9BTczoHRfrX7D

In this video, we are going to get together our split test variant marketing assets so that we can split test this advertorial. Go back to the diagram here. Then we have our e-commerce product page that we are running these to. They're coming from our advertorial. And we want to pre-frame and pre-sell the customer on purchasing. Now, we've given you advertorials that have been proven to work. I won't say that they are perfect advertorials, but they are proven to work. And your job as an affiliate is to have proprietary marketing materials that no other affiliate has. So we've already given you a base template for this advertorial, and it works. It is not the best advertorial possible, but it is a working advertorial. We have been able to get purchases with these advertorials and have successful campaigns. However, there is a great deal that you can do to improve the performance of your advertorial by testing. And the two top elements to test that impact the conversion rate and how many sales you will get is number one, the headline. The headline on your advertorial has the biggest impact on how many people will click through to the product page and how many of those people will purchase. And the second highest determining factor is your hero shot. And so those are the two things, and the hero shot being this big, large image that shows up first under the headline. So those are the two things that we want to test first so that you can find a winning combination that works better than what we gave you and that no other affiliate has access to. That's going to be your first step in developing marketing assets that are unique, proprietary to you, and work better than what anyone else has. That's going to be your competitive advantage. So we will come up with different headlines, variants on headlines to split test, and hero shots to split test. Now, we recommend starting with something like a minimum of five different headline variants and five different hero shot variants. This is going to give you a combined total of 25 different landing pages for you to test. You can set that up in Metric Mover. Alternatively, you could create individual pages and pair a specific headline with a specific hero shot and create 10 individual landing pages in Flexi. There is no one set way to test these. However, you want to test some new headlines and some new hero shots to find a combination that works better than what is here. So I recommend either starting with five and five. Get five new headlines and five hero shots, and then we will combine those using Metric Mover. You can refer to the Metric Mover technical setup videos on how to do that. That will create your 25 landing page variants for you to split test. Or alternatively, I recommend setting up 10 different clones of this landing page in Flexi and giving each one a unique headline and a unique image. That way you're not randomly mixing and matching headlines and hero shots. You have very carefully crafted each headline and each hero shot to work together closely. But those are the first tests that you are going to set up is testing different variants on your landing pages. For now, don't worry about the technical setup of doing that. Simply get together your headlines for testing. So whether it's four different headlines in addition to this one, or it's nine different headlines in addition to this one, if you're going to do the 10 pages option, but get together those. I recommend you running this headline as your control. It has been tested. It works quite well. It has had quite a bit of testing in this case. And so this is a good headline. It has been tested. It has beaten out several other headlines at this point to arrive in this location. And you now have the job of beating this headline with your own headline so that you have something that no one else has. Likewise, this hero image has been tested and it is working quite well. You want to find additional hero images that you can test against this. Find something that you think would work better. How do you come up with those ideas? Well, number one, by looking through the advertorial, read through the actual advertorial, see what it talks about. See if there are any other interesting points in here that you can bring up higher into that headline or the hero image. Look for the pain points, the benefits, the personal stories, the places where people are going to develop an emotional connection or attachment, things that are particularly powerful that jump out at you and bring those up higher in the page. Also, look at the product page. Look at the ideas in this product page. You can come through this product page and once again, look at what are people responding to on this page. What are the benefits? What are the pain points? What are the story points, if any? What are the unique features of this item that they cannot get anywhere else? And so look at the unique elements here on this and find some of those that are not mentioned currently in the headline or ideas that are not conveyed currently in the hero shot that you think would be good to test. And then gather together your alternative hero shots and your alternative headlines. Hero shots, generally 800 by 500 pixels in image size is a great standard size for hero images. So get together your hero images and your headlines. In this case, you are simply collecting the assets. You can look at the technical setup videos for how to implement those on your landing pages. But for now, just put together your headlines and your hero shots. Headlines, you can put them in a document, a notepad, whatever. Get your different headlines that you are going to test. Get your hero shots. They can be still images or GIFs. As you can see, this one is moving a little bit. Save those in a folder and then we will go about the technical part of implementing those and setting up our landing pages for split testing.


---
Title: DIYTRAX Traffic 1 - Configure Traffic Source Settings
Video ID: _QkVr3PU41rShKMG

In this video, I'm going to show you how to configure your traffic source settings for your initial DIY tracks campaign. So we want to come into our campaign here in DIY tracks. And you will initially load to the basic info. You want to come to the second tab, the traffic source now. And we're going to do the top configurations here. You'll notice that you may have some notices. So if you don't have enough balance in this traffic source, which is the response Brolodex phase 2 right now, you do have options up here. We can ignore that for now. We can still set this up and that will be fine. Then notice you have the instructions to please fill the form, click on save, then upload at least one asset. You can save the information and assets and update them at a later time. And for the native ad type, you need to add at least one headline in the headline section. So some helpful notifications at the top. For us, the first two will apply. We're not going to use the native ad type for this, but we are going to, in this step, fill out this form up top and save it. And then we'll upload banners in the next step. So at the top, we'll choose the offer. Now we've selected MediaMavens on the basic info. And so it has the MediaMavens products. We're doing Skeeter Strike. So I'm going to choose that. Ad type here is display. It's not native because we have banners that we've created. If we were doing native, we would simply have headlines and images separately that are not put together into banners, but we already have banners. Now, if you have a single banner type, the size options are here. So if you have one size, you may select that one size and you'll be done. If you have multiple, and I have multiple, so I have three sizes, you can click on the multiple. And I have all three sizes. If you simply try to click the multiple and then save with only one of these selected, it will not work and it will default back to single. So what you need to do is hold down control on your keyboard and select all of the sizes that you have. So if you have two sizes, 300 by 250 and 970 by 250, you want to select those two. If you have all three, like I do in this case, you want to make sure that all three of them are selected. Then moving down to the daily budget section, $500 is a great daily budget for our initial test. Our total budget must be a minimum of 1500. You can do more, but that's our minimum for the initial test. And you cannot stop, touch, change, alter your campaign in any way until it spends that initial $1,500. After that, we have some options for adjusting the campaign and spending smaller amounts on later tests within the same campaign. But for this first run, we have to spend a full $1,500. So that has a floor. It has a minimum here. And notice if I delete that, it'll say total budget must be $1,500 or more. I'm going to leave that at $1,500. The $500 for daily budget, so this will run across three days, is fantastic. So I'm going to leave that alone. And then cost per click. We can edit this. And if we bid more, we could get more exposure, possibly different placements, faster traffic flow, that type of thing. Your floor is this $0.75, but you could increase this if you wanted to bid $0.76 or $0.80 per click. For example, you could change that cost per click. I'm going to leave mine at $0.75. And now that we've filled out this top form, I'm going to click save. Hopefully this goes without saying, but I'm using the Skeeter Strike product. If you are promoting a different product from Media Mavens, please choose the appropriate product that matches for you. Also, I have all three banner sizes that I'm going to be using that I've created. If you do not have all three, please do not select all three. Select the sizes that you are using for your test. Your test may look slightly different from mine. And so choose the settings that are appropriate for your test. Probably for the budgets, it's going to look similar to this, but you may want to increase your cost per click bid. That's probably the only thing that you would do differently with the budgets, however. Alright, once you have the form filled out, set the way it should be, go ahead and click this save button. You should get this notification in the top saying that traffic info has been saved successfully. That is it. In the next video, we will go ahead and upload our ad banners.


---
Title: DIYTRAX Traffic 2 - Upload Ad Banners
Video ID: Z0QoPKV5_LdoxUsQ

In this video, I'm going to show you how to upload your ad banner. So once you have filled out this initial traffic information form and clicked save, you want to scroll down here to the assets section. Notice that each of your files must be below 1000 kilobytes in size or one megabyte. We're going to choose these files by clicking on that. Navigate to the folder where you have banners. So in this case, I have some banners in here. I'm going to choose these files. I'm going to click open and then upload. And now I have those five here. And you can hover over these eyeballs to see the different banners. I'm going to now select my other sizes because I have the three different sizes. Click upload those five. And so now I have these five uploaded and I'll do it once again because I have a third size here. Select all of these, open, and then upload. And those were a little larger, so they took a little bit longer. And I'm going to show all 25. And now we can see these are my large banners here with a still image rather than a GIF on there. All right. And so that is it for the uploading of the banners. Notice that this submit button is grayed out. That is because of the current balance. So our campaign does not have enough funds to run. And so we're not able to submit our ad banners. We will come back and submit these in a later step after we fund our account.


---
Title: DIYTRAX Traffic 3 - Fund Your Traffic Source
Video ID: DmYPOCDabSw9G2Jq

In this video, I'm going to walk you through funding your account so that you are ready to run your campaign. You should have already set the traffic information here, saved this form, and then uploaded your ad banners down below. Once you have, you want to come up here and you want to find in the upper right-hand corner the appropriate traffic source. Now, at the time that I'm recording this video, it's going to be the Responsive Rolodex Phase 2. That is the traffic source that we want to run and that should be what we have selected under our basic info when we set up our campaign. I'll go back over there so we can see that. Here we've chosen our traffic source, Responsive Rolodex Phase 2. Now, we are going to be phasing out the Phase 1 Responsive Rolodex traffic source and so the names may change in the future, but for now, this is the current traffic source. Check current materials for the current traffic source. We're going to be doing the Responsive Rolodex Phase 2. Whichever traffic source you are running on, we will be having other traffic sources made available as well. So, be sure to match the traffic source with what you are selected and you are running. Right now, it's the Phase 2. And you simply come here and click on this fund button. That will open a new page here. And here you will see on this page the Responsive Rolodex Test Phase Rounds 3 and 4 Email Sponsorships CPC Bidding. Again, that text may have changed. As I mentioned, the traffic sources are in flux as far as the naming. However, this is the proper one. So, if you click on the fund button next to the correct one, this is the correct one for the Phase 2 traffic source and it is CPC Email Sponsorships. You want to simply scroll down here, enter the funding amount that you want. It needs to be at least $1,500, probably a little bit extra for your first round of testing. And then click Add to Cart. Now, I am not going to complete this checkout process because I am in a dummy account and so I'm not going to fund that dummy account. There's no point in funding that dummy account. However, you would simply click Proceed to Checkout and then continue with the checkout process in order to fund your account. After you complete the funding process, you should, if you pay with a card, see that balance reflected up here almost immediately, almost instantly. And so, if you do not see that right away, do check back half an hour later, an hour later. If it has not shown up an hour after you have funded using a card, please reach out to support, send an email, or use the form in the portal to reach out to support at BTSmedia.com and let them know that you've funded your account but the balance is not being reflected in your DIY tracks account. And they will get that squared away and taken care of. Don't worry, the money has not disappeared. If you've made the payment, we have the record of that and it is easy for us to apply that balance to your account once you complete the payment. If you pay by card, once again, the balance should be reflected almost instantly, automatically. If you do some sort of account transfer or money wire or something like that, it may take longer for that balance to reflect, but if you pay with a card, it should be almost right away. So if you don't see it quickly, I would say within an hour at the longest, please do reach out to support to have them update your balance. Once you have funded your account with more than $1,500, you should be ready to submit your banners and run. We'll cover that in a later video.


---
Title: DIYTRAX Traffic 4 - Place Affiliate Link in DIYTrax Campaign Offer Pages
Video ID: Ww1AGI7nyxcagXbV

In this video, I'm going to show you how to place your affiliate link in your DIY tracks campaign. So when you have your DIY tracks open and you're in the campaign, navigate over to the offer pages tab and click on that. And here you'll see that you have no offer page in here at this moment. We want to go ahead and get our link for that by going over to the resources, affiliate networks. We're running MediaMavens. If you were running ClickBank, then you want to get your hop link from ClickBank. In this case, we are running MediaMavens and we are running Skeeter Strike. Click on that and come down here and I'm going to grab this affiliate link here. I'm going to copy that, Control C. Come over to DIY tracks. I will add and I will paste, Control V, this URL in here, including this ref code with the affiliate code on the end. Now your affiliate code should be a different string of letters and numbers and not this same one. It will be unique to you, but the link with the product and the affiliate code, that's your ref code. And I'm going to give this a name, Skeeter e-com page. It's going to get 100% of the share because we only have one product link that we are going to. One affiliate link. I'm going to turn that active and I'm going to add. All right. So now we've got our affiliate link in here. Once again, if you're promoting a ClickBank offer, you would need to get your hop link that goes to the VSL page that includes your affiliate ID for ClickBank. In this case, we're running a MediaMavens product and so we have the MediaMavens link in there. All right. So that's how you add your affiliate link to your DIY tracks campaign.


---
Title: DIYTRAX Traffic 5 - Perform a Final QA Campaign Check
Video ID: VRDhK_Cpd7PHm0vU

In this video, we're going to perform a final QA safety check before we launch our campaign. So I'm starting at the basic info tab. I just want to make sure that my campaign name is correct, that the sub ID here, URL append token looks correct. It's important when running ClickBank offers that you have only underscores in this URL append token. It's less important for some of the other networks that we're running on, but if you don't have underscores in there, you won't be able to get your conversions passed back into ClickBank. And so using underscores in there, it should default to that, but just make sure you don't have dashes or some other sort of punctuation. For media mavens, this keyword parameter should be a sub ID. If it is a ClickBank product, then you'll see a T ID for tracking ID. And so you want to make sure that that's selected appropriately here. Offer promotion in this case should be e-commerce because we're running media mavens. And so I want to make sure that that is set properly. All right, we are using a landing page with an advertorial. This should match sub ID, sub ID should match what's up here, sub ID and sub ID here. So in those all of those locations, you should see sub IDs. Make sure that we have responsible Rolodex phase 2 traffic matching on both and that we have all of the tokens for the phase 2 traffic here. Then we will go over to the traffic source and we are looking for this to be the proper product, Skeeter Strike. We're doing display, we've got banners. All three of our sizes of banners have been selected. $500 for a daily budget is great. We've got our cost per click. Come back to that in a moment before we launch our campaign. We can adjust that up, which might get us a little bit more visibility on the network. And so if we want to start a little higher bid, we could do that. Total budget needs to be at least $1,500 for this first run. And so that is okay. Here we've got our banners and we can show all 15. You can go through and take a look and make sure that all of your banners are showing up and that they look appropriate as you intended them. Last second check for typos and things like that. Check our landing page tab and what we're looking for here is that the landing pages are in. The other QA thing that you should have already done on these landing pages, but if you have not yet, is to come in here and grab one of these landing page URLs, open it up and then check the links. Make sure that this has your DIY tracks T2 link and you'll see that in the bottom left hand corner should be the DIY tracks T2 link in that bottom left hand corner. As long as you are seeing that T2 link, you should be good. But you want to just check everywhere there's a link that there is that DIY tracks T2 link in there. And so that's the big check for your landing pages to make sure that those links are properly set up in there. Hopefully at this point you've already done that, but that is the big thing to check on your landing pages. You can do a last second look just to make sure that the formatting and everything looks fine on them. But we want to make sure that the links at a very minimum are correct. Then offer pages. Just take a quick look here. Make sure that we have in an affiliate link here. This share's appropriate. In this case, we have one, so it's 100%. And that it is set active. This looks fine. Has our affiliate code on the end. And so we are good to go here. If we go over to links and pixels, we just want to make sure that these extra parameters are showing in here. These are those macros that we saw in the basic info tab. So if you look down here, campaign, ad ID, publisher, line, device, CPC, click ID, placement. Then you'll notice that those are what is showing up in here. So these are the macros. You just want to make sure that's in that campaign URL. And if everything looks good across our campaign, then we will be ready for the final submission and to take the thing live. And that will happen in the traffic source when we submit our banners. And then in the basic info tab where we toggle the campaign active. We won't do that in this video, but we'll cover that in another video. This is your final QA safety check just to make sure that all of the settings are correct on your campaign before you set it live.


---
Title: DIYTRAX Traffic 6 - Submit Ad Banners and Turn Campaign Toggle to Active
Video ID: baAaMpAZL9JT3YOa

In this video, we are going to cover submitting your ad banners and turning your campaign on. This will be after you've done your final check to make sure that everything looks right and come over to the traffic source tab here. And the one adjustment that we might make here is to increase our CPC bid so that we get a little bit more of the share of the traffic. And so we might start this off higher than 75 cents, so something like a dollar. You can make a determination on whether you want to creep it up until you get the traffic flow, or if you want to start a little higher and then see if you can creep it down and lower that cost per click based on your bid. The traffic that you're going to get is going to be a function of the bid that you're placing for the different ad placements and the strength of your marketing. So how strong your marketing assets are at generating clicks. So your CTR rate, higher CTR click-through rate as you get more clicks, will get a bigger share of the traffic. And so stronger marketing materials can get just as much traffic with a lower cost per click bid. Whereas if you have weaker marketing materials on your ad banners, you're going to need a little higher cost per click bid in order to get a share of the traffic. So we're going to start here at a dollar cost per click on this campaign. So you have your banners in and you are sure that they are exactly the way you want them. Go ahead and click this submit button down here. Now we can't mess with this again. So remember, you want to make sure that everything is good. So if you aren't sure, click no, go back and double check. Make sure everything is exactly the way that you want it and the way that it should be. Be very sure before you click submit. And once you click submit, you should see that it submitted successfully. And then you'll notice that some of this will gray out and be locked up so you can no longer change it. Notice it says your traffic data has been submitted successfully. Campaign is pending review, will be live within 72 hours. We're now going to go back over to this basic info tab and note that after we've done the submission, our tab has turned active. And so this campaign has been turned on and has become active after we submit those banners. So be sure that you are 100% ready to go live before you submit your ad banners on the traffic source page. That is it. The only thing we have to do is wait for the review and for the campaign to go live now.


---
Title: DIYTRAX Traffic 7 - How Grasshopper Traffic Source Works and What to Expect
Video ID: k9ockub2YnGD4mMp

In this video, I'm going to talk a little bit about how the grasshopper traffic source works and what to expect in your campaign, especially in the early days. So here in this SkeeterStrike demo campaign, you can see that the traffic turned on the first. Now we're at the sixth and it has ramped up over the course of those days. And I have a few conversions. So I have four purchases here spread across three different banners. And when looking at the spend, you may notice that the spend is not quite even across the banners. And so some of these have gone inactive with just about $100. So $99.45, but some of them turned off early. There are 15 banners here, so $1,500 in spend should be about $100 each. That is somewhat typical. The development team is working on a fix to that. So by the time you're seeing this video, they may all be spending 100 exactly before they go inactive. That is the hope. In this case, we have an active one that spent $67.85, another active one that spent $54.55, another one that spent $61.40. And then this guy that spent $13, but is active. Another one down here that spent $35, another one that spent $4.75, another one that spent $3.00. So the way this grasshopper traffic source works is that it's going to take a few of the banners and that might be three or four or five of the banners, something like that. And it's going to give a little bit of traffic to that set of banners, that group of banners that it chooses from your set. And one of those is going to seem to work a little better than some of the others. And it's going to then push and run the spend all into that banner. And then it will turn it off when it hits the limit. So in this case, it should be about $100 and then that banner will turn inactive. And then it's going to take another set of a few banners, push a little bit of traffic into them, and then find one that it prefers. And it's going to run up the spend on that single banner and then that one will become inactive. And then it'll take another small set and so on and so on. And so that's why you might see discrepancy in the spend here where you have some banners that have just a little bit of spend, but they don't seem to have had their turn yet. And so that's how that happens. In one sense, it is one banner at a time that gets its full spend and then gets turned inactive and then another one. But the bigger picture is that it takes a small sample set of three, four, five, something like that. I don't know the exact number of them, but it takes a few of them and it tests them out. And then it decides on one to push more traffic into and then it'll run the spend up on that one and then move on to another set and test and then push spend into one and so on. So it can be difficult to optimize in the middle of the campaign. We may be able to optimize here if we see that a banner is really performing poorly with $25 or more in spend. This one's got $35, but it's got a purchase on it. So I'm certainly not cutting that banner. The others that are still active in a partial $67.85. So if I were to look at the performance of this banner right here and say, oh, this one's performing poorly, I could turn it off. In this case, the ad CTR looks pretty decent. 0.08. So that seems pretty high and my LP event CTR is 17.65%. That's my highest LP event CTR on that banner. And so I'm probably going to leave that one active. The cost per click is a dollar, which is higher than some of my others, but this is a 300 by 250 banner. I didn't use anything particularly special for the image there, so it's doing okay. This banner is performing okay, well within ranges that we would like to see. The ones that have the purchases on them, this cluster of three purchases anyway, is down here at between 8 and 9% CTR. And they are two different sizes, but the ad CTR is 0.01 and 0.03 hovering at a dollar and 93 cents per click. I'm not too worried about that. This banner didn't get a purchase, it doesn't look like, or at least it didn't make it in here, but it had good cost per clicks at 83 cents, 0.09 CTR and an LP event CTR that was second. So that one seemed to perform pretty decently as well. We'll just watch these. I'm going to let these run out and then I will make a determination on what to do with them. But I don't really see any banners that I would cut early. This one has a decent ad CTR and not high LP CTR, but it's within range. It's not too far off its close neighbor to these guys that got the purchase. So there's probably something there. Looking at my landing pages again, it's pretty difficult to tell. These percentages have changed and if you see them drop over time, that's pretty typical. As the traffic comes in, you have more traffic registering for the visitors and the clicks tend to stay the same on the page, then these percentages drop. So I saw my top page go from like 26% CTR down to 14 and now it's at 12.57. That's pretty typical. Also, the different banners that are getting the spend are going to get different CTRs. As you saw, there was quite a range on the banners. And so if my CTR is 17.65% from the banner, then the landing page click through rate is going to be much higher while that banner spends out. So this one 13.73%, my second highest, it got its full spend or what it called its full spend of $84. That's going to produce a very different result than say this guy right here who had a 3.12% landing page CTR when it spent out its full $94. And so that's going to pull down the landing page CTR. Keep in mind it was only three clicks, so not huge numbers. And at the top it was 14 here with this one running out its full spend. So nothing to panic about, but if I could have caught this banner early and noted that the stats on it were particularly poor, I might have been able to cut that one a little bit early. It can be difficult to tell sometimes what the performance on that is going to be until it runs out. So if you just want to let it run out and ride it out until the end of the campaign, that's fine. Obviously with five clicks and four clicks, it's impossible to tell whether we should have a landing page click through rate of much of anything here on these two banners that are active. And this one, even though it has a low landing page CTR, it did get that one purchase. So I'm somewhat loath to cut it since it did produce a purchase for me. Landing pages, again, you see the spread from 12.57 down to about half that, 6.60%. But difficult to really determine here. And the one with 6.80 again got a purchase there. So just let these ride out and see how it does through the end of the test. But this is pretty typical. I'm looking at $957 in spend, but if you see your numbers change and adjust over the days and as different banners get their spend, don't panic. That is very typical. And notice I'm not breaking even on this. I've got $300 in revenue in on a $957 spend. If I come out to about $500 on this total, that's pretty decent, pretty typical. Sometimes you'll do better, sometimes you may do a little bit worse on your first test. We are getting some purchases. That's encouraging. I've got one banner here with two purchases that is so far right now in the green, in the positive. Another one down here that's got a low spend yet, but it does have a purchase already. And so it is in the positive as well. And the third banner with a purchase here is not far off from being in the positive. It's only in the whole $13.95. And so that's pretty decent and pretty promising. So we definitely have some fruits to harvest and go down those roads to running profitable banners. There's hints that we could have some profitable banners within this mix. And there are other banners, obviously, that are not creating conversions, not creating purchases. And so we will cut those out and continue to follow the fruit on this campaign. So that's explanation of how this grasshopper traffic works and kind of what to expect across the early days of your campaign. This is pretty typical. If you see how this campaign looks right now, that is fairly typical for what you could expect to see across your campaigns on the grasshopper traffic.


---
Title: DIYTRAX (1)
Video ID: EqqoE4li5xO0wrjq

Hello, digital marketers, affiliate maestros, and data-driven enthusiasts. I'm the BTS team, and today I'm thrilled to unveil a game-changer in the affiliate marketing world, DIY Tracks, the URL and landing page rotator crafted specifically for your evolving needs. DIY Tracks isn't just another tracking tool. It's the solution I developed out of a necessity for my team. When existing apps fell short, we built DIY Tracks to be stable, reliable, and incredibly user-friendly. And now, with the stable 2.0 release, it's bug-free and more powerful than ever. With DIY Tracks, you can effortlessly create multiple campaign types, whether it's direct link, landing page, multi-path, or multi-option campaigns. But that's just the beginning. Imagine tracking, testing, and optimizing your campaigns across various traffic sources with unparalleled on-the-fly control. DIY Tracks brings you in-depth data analysis for all your campaigns, from ads and keywords to pages and offers, along with detailed revenue data to turbocharge your profits. One of DIY Tracks' most compelling features is its simplicity. Add new pages or edit offers in your rotation without a single line of code. Our intuitive interface lets you adjust your campaign's rotation in real time, giving you the flexibility to adapt instantly to market dynamics. DIY Tracks is more than just a tool. It's your partner in profit. Whether you're launching a new campaign or scaling an existing one, DIY Tracks offers you the stability, reliability, and control needed to succeed in the competitive landscape of affiliate marketing. Ready to take your affiliate marketing to the next level? DIY Tracks is here to make that journey smooth and profitable. Dive into the future of campaign management with DIY Tracks, where your marketing meets its match in technology. Let's rock the digital world together.


---
Title: DIYTrax LP Offer Link in Custom Value
Video ID: BgxXseNNcM4ywRXp

In this video, I'm going to show you how to add your DIY Tracks landing page offer link into your Flexi custom values. So first, let's navigate to our custom values in our Flexi account. You can see we're logged in here. On the left, we're going to come down here to the settings, and we're going to click on settings in the left bottom on the left navigation. Then we're going to scroll down until we come to this custom values and click on that. And in here, you should see this one that says DIY Tracks underscore landing underscore page underscore offer link. And then you will see the squiggly brackets, custom values, DIY Tracks landing page offer link. All right, this is what we will be editing. We need the link to go in here. All right, and so we will go over here to these three little dots and we will edit this custom value. And we're going to enter the value here. Now, we will get this from DIY Tracks. It will be our DIY Tracks landing page offer link. So when you are in your campaign setup, you will have needed to have created and saved an initial campaign, set up the basic parameters for it. You will then click on this far right tab, the link and pixels, to navigate to this page. And it is the second one down. Notice how this says landing page offer link. You can hit the little clipboard here. Now I have blurred out, there will be some letters and numbers here, dot DIY Tracks dot app forward slash T2. This is your T2 DIY Tracks link. Everyone's numbers and letters here will be different. That is your individual link. This is the link that you will put on every single landing page for going to the offers. How DIY Tracks knows to send it to different offers is because of the other things that you see in the campaign URL in the box above. So based on which DIY Tracks account this is, these are blurred out so that you can't see them because I don't want you to think that yours should look the same. And then some sort of campaign number, which again will be different than this. And these variables in here tell it where to send it. This will be the link that you will use on all of your landing pages, always, for all offers and all campaigns that go to the offer. So this is the link that we're going to put in there. We're going to put this into our custom values. So we get this T2 link by clicking the clipboard here to copy it to our clipboard, or you may highlight and hit Control C to copy or right click and copy. There are any number of ways. Copy this to your clipboard. Navigate back over here to our Flexi account and into this value. We will paste this in and then we will update. And voila, you have your DIY Tracks T2 link in your custom values for the DIY Tracks landing page offer link. You should see the squiggly bracket, custom values thing in the middle. And that is it. That is how you get your DIY Tracks landing page offer link into your custom values in Flexi. In another video, we'll talk about the value that you put into your landing pages for the links so that everything works properly.


---
Title: DIYTrax LP Offer Link in Landing Page
Video ID: MKKibZvkeD93e78e

In this video, we're going to talk about how to make sure that you have the correct link on your landing pages to go to the offer. In the last video, we put our DIY tracks landing page offer link into the custom values. And so once you have that in there, you want to verify that this does indeed match what is in your DIY tracks account on the link and pixels in the second box landing page offer link. As long as that matches in your custom values here, you are good to go. This middle squiggly bracket, custom values, DIY tracks landing page offer link, that is what we will want on our landing pages as the actual links. So whether that is on a hero image or a button, anything that goes to our offer, like our ClickBank product or whatever offer we are promoting, this will be the link that we actually put in there. So you can click these little overlapping squares here. That will copy this to your clipboard. And then we'll go over here to our websites. And of course, this is our live website run campaigns here. So I'm going to go in here and let's go find our page that we've worked on so hard. This bizarre metabolic enzyme. We're going to edit this. And in this page, we have this hero that is a link. We have a button that's a link. We have another button that is a link. So we want to make sure that those are linked up appropriately. We can click on here and scroll in the right side down here to where we see the image actions, go to website URL. And then in here, we just want to make sure that this lines up. Let's say that this did not have a link in it or it was something different. We would want to paste in this custom values DIY tracks landing page offer link, this weird looking custom value thing with the two squiggly brackets on either side. It will match exactly what you see over here. This custom values thing right here that we copied from here. Now, your done for you templates should already have this custom value in here, but you definitely want to check and make sure that all of the things that should be linked are linked and that they are linked appropriately with this custom value. That one is. Scroll down here, click on this button. And it indeed looks like all of those are lining up. Now, we're going to want to double check this by clicking on this URL to launch the page. Once we are on the page, we'll want to hover over these linked images and buttons. And now you're going to look in the bottom left-hand corner of the screen there. And you will see it is your DIY tracks T2 link. That is what it should be. Notice that custom value squiggly thing got replaced by the DIY tracks T2 link. This button should have that as well. So it should disappear. Hover over the button. You should see that again. We scroll down, hover over this button, and we should see that same DIY tracks T2 link. As long as that is on every link that you have in here, you should be good to go. If you have text that's linked or something else, you add in some additional buttons or another clickable image, you just want to make sure that it is indeed showing your DIY tracks T2 link. That should match up with what is here in your custom values. This is what it should be showing on the page itself. And of course, in DIY tracks, it should match this. As long as everything is lining up there and matching and on the page when you hover, that is the link that is showing, then everything is set up correctly as far as your links. So that is how you get your DIY tracks landing page offer link onto your landing page and verify that it is correctly set up. Now, one thing you should know about this is that when you click this without a campaign URL and you just have this landing page open, it will go to a blank white page. And that is by design. That is a feature and not a bug. This T2 link will not work without the campaign parameters that tell it exactly what offer to send it to. Do not worry. When we set up our campaigns, your ads will have the campaign data and all the additional information in there that will tell DIY tracks where to send the person clicking on the link. So do not worry about that. The correct information will be there at that time. This is how it should work. You want to see this T2 link here. But unless you have actually clicked on a campaign URL, these will not work. They will send you to a blank white page. And that is by design. All right, this concludes the video on how to add your DIY tracks landing page offer link into your landing pages and verify that it is set up correctly.


---
Title: Flexy (1)
Video ID: mxMJcb1ABTOgkKiW

Hey BTS fam, I'm your BTS coach BTS and today I'm excited to show you how you can build your dream website in less than an hour with Flexi, the ultimate drag-and-drop landing page builder that's changing the game. Gone are the days of wrestling with code or waiting on a web designer for simple updates. With Flexi, you're in control, using just your mouse to craft and fine-tune the perfect web presence for your project or business. Imagine having the power to bring your website vision to life without touching a single line of code. Flexi makes this a reality. Whether you're building a landing page for your startup, a portfolio to showcase your work, or an e-commerce site to sell your products, Flexi has you covered. With over 80 beautifully designed templates at your fingertips, starting your website is as easy as click, drag, and drop. These aren't just any templates. They're crafted to make your content shine and engage your visitors from the first click. Flexi isn't just about ease, it's about making your site uniquely yours. Change global colors, fonts, and more with just a few clicks. And the best part? Your website will look amazing on all devices. Flexi ensures your site automatically scales perfectly on phones and tablets. We understand the importance of a mobile-first world. That's why Flexi guarantees your site not only looks good, but functions seamlessly across all devices, ensuring your message reaches everyone, everywhere. With Flexi, your website building journey is about to take off. No more barriers, no more waiting. It's time to unleash your creativity and build the website you've always dreamed of effortlessly. Welcome to the future of web design. Welcome to Flexi.


---
Title: Generate Advertorial Headlines with AffiliateCMO
Video ID: 7KPLgKSYwMDPnTyt

In this video, I'm going to show you how to generate some freaking fantastic headlines using our AI copywriting tool, Affiliate CMO. If we have our advertorial pulled up, and we do here for Skeeter Strike, then we can use this advertorial here to write some headlines that we can test against this control headline to beat it. So come over to Affiliate CMO. Now, if you need training on how to set up a project, get started with the whole thing, there is a full set of training right here on the left. Click there. That'll show you how to get set up. I've already set this project up from the beginning by providing the sales asset. That's simply the sales page for this Skeeter Strike device. And it's already completed the research. So that's all been done in the background. Again, if you need to see how to do that for your own account, come over here to the training tab. I've already done that on this project, and I will assume for the sake of this video that you've already set that up. You already have your market research and background data all generated. You've already uploaded at least a sales asset, and now we are ready to generate some headlines for our advertorial. So we're going to come to generate new asset here, and I want headlines. I'm going to click on headlines. And then the only option for now is generate advertorial headlines. By the time you're watching this, there may be additional ones. And we are going to choose upload a new advertorial. And in this first advertorial name blank, I'm going to type in, I'm going to type in just a name for this advertorial so I know what it is. And this one is really kind of a third-person story. In this case, it's home and garden, and it's a gadget. And so once I've got that all set, these don't matter too much. They're not going to affect much at this point. In the future, we will connect those, but those are mostly just tags for you to have and find things. I'm going to go back over to my advertorial. I'm simply going to control A and control C to select and copy all of this to my clipboard. I'm going to come back over here, and I am going to control V, and I am simply pasting this in. Now you can get rid of this advertorial disclaimer here at the bottom. We don't really need that part. We can come up to the top and delete right here. And there's really only one change I'm going to make right here, is I'm going to put in this octothorpe hashtag type symbol and a space. And that's going to mark my H1. If you click on this style guide, you can see this is an H1 heading with one of those and then a space before it, and this would be an H2, that type of thing. And so you can follow that style guide if you want to mark this. You don't really need to do much else, but I do want to mark that headline so that it knows what part of this is the headline. And then I'm going to click upload advertorial, and it's automatically going to start generating our headlines. The first set of headlines will take the longest to generate. And then after that, it's going to take less time. That's because while it is generating the first set of headlines, it's going back through all the customer avatar research to see what those major pain points are, the triggers, the emotional triggers for your customer avatar and exactly what would cause them to want and buy this product. It's looking at those emotional needs. What are the connections? What are the pain points with family, with neighbors, with significant others? All of those things, and it's pulling those in to give us our best bet headlines here that actually target our customer avatar that has been deeply researched by the software. So this first set of headlines is going to take the longest to generate. And then successive sets of headlines that we will generate using refiners, etc., will be much, much faster. So we're just going to wait for this first set to finish, and then we will look at the outputs and decide if we want to apply any sort of refiners, give it any sort of custom instructions, because we can really take control and refine these headlines to get headlines that are exactly how we want them. This already has very powerful, powerful research behind it and then structure prompts telling it how to put together headlines that are going to be extremely effective, hitting all of the major copy blocks where we have proof, promise, pain, we have the curiosity of the mechanism, and then we also have the constraints, things that they don't want to do or don't have to do because of our solution. Alright, so fantastic. We've got a set of headlines that have generated here, and we can look through these and see what we've got. So starting off with a lot of authority, MIT scientist's six-minute mosquito shield. So there's our curiosity around the mechanism. Discovery helps 35,000, so social proof. 35,000 moms reclaim their backyards. That's a promise. It's like drawing an invisible line bugs can't cross. All right. Texas teacher's personal tragedy leads to breakthrough. New UV technology eliminates 96% of mosquitoes without chemicals, while other solutions are becoming 47% less effective. Strain 78 cents per day device from former MIT student creates a force field against mosquitoes. Finally had our first bite-free barbecue in three years. The buried flash beam secret that's 700% more effective than traditional solutions. Why school biology teacher's innovation is making $300 professional treatments obsolete. All right, so you can see we've got a whole bunch of really great headlines here. We can move these all to the saved column. And if you want more like this, you can simply click re-roll and we will get another set of headlines similar to this. Okay, and now we've got another set of headlines that have come out and we've got all kinds of really great stuff to choose from here. Again, I'm not going to go through too in-depth. As you can see, we've got a whole bunch of really strong, really great headlines. Move those to the saved. Okay, so re-roll, get another set of headlines here. That's good. Local schools replace $47,000 pest control systems. Biology teachers. Forget everything you know about mosquito control. MIT graduate's seven-ounce device creates instant safe zones without toxic sprays. Neighborhood kids all play in our yard now. All right, so we've got all these really great. So you've got a whole pile here, 30 good headlines. You could keep re-rolling here if you want to. We do have preset refiners you can use there, or we could use some custom instructions. And in this case, I'm going to give it the control on this headline right here and tell it. All right, so I'm giving it the control headline. And then I'm saying, please take the most effective facets of this headline. Use them to create a set of headlines. We'll prove even more effective and create close iterations in an attempt to beat the control. And boom. Okay, so breaking Texas teacher's device wards up 96% of mosquitoes in six minutes flat. Now sweeping the nation as families report first bite-free summer in years. High school teacher's instant mosquito shield goes viral. Device now protecting over 150,000 families from summer bites. Bite-free zones. All right, so going to move these all. And I'm going to say, these are really great. Think about what makes this control headline most effective. Then use that to create headlines that are even more effective. These don't have to be close variants of the original. I'm going to use that. Come up with some different ones. Okay, so local teacher's mosquito discovery leaves pest control experts speechless. Watch an entire backyards transform into bug-free zones in under six minutes. Heartbreaking reason this MIT graduate created a device that makes mosquitoes vanish. It's like having an invisible shield around your children. Okay. Disease-carrying mosquitoes force schools to act. Teacher's chemical-free innovation now protecting thousands. See the results it's making pest companies nervous. High school teacher solves America's mosquito problem. Moves to saved. All right, we could re-roll. I've already created a bunch of headlines. We can come back over here to the advertorial demo set here. And here we've got a whole bunch of these. We've got 100 here. And then last, mosquito apocalypse device has chemical companies scrambling. Exposed the real reason pest control companies don't want you to know about this high school teacher's mosquito destruction field. Works so fast they're trying to get it banned. This teacher's mosquito doomsday device is so effective, big chemical companies are trying to keep it off the market. The vampire effect, how a grieving teacher accidentally discovered that mosquitoes have one fatal weakness. And it's not what anyone expected. Now banned in three states after pressure from chemical lobbyists. All right, do not buy another bug spray until you see this. High school teacher's strange device creates an invisible death zone for mosquitoes while being completely harmless to children. Chemical companies are freaking out. So it's like having a force field. Finally, a way to keep mosquitoes away that actually works and doesn't make your kids smell like bug spray. How one teacher's heartbreaking story led to the summer's most amazing mom hack. I watched my child scratch until she bled. Then I discovered what this teacher had been hiding since his brother's death. The solution is unlike anything you've ever imagined. See the terrifying reason this teacher spent 15 years developing a new way to protect our children from mosquitoes. Why every mom who hears his story is throwing away their bug spray. Exhausted mom reveals I was ready to give up on summer until this teacher's heartbreaking story led me to the device that finally freed us from the mosquito prison. Used to dread going outside. Emotional story of how a grieving teacher's mosquito discovery is helping desperate moms reclaim their


---
Title: Generate Advertorial Headlines with FreeAdCopy
Video ID: 9880wmsSJBKP1WRk

In this video, I'm going to show you how to generate headlines to split test for your advertorial using the free AdCopy.com app. And once you're in your free AdCopy account, you can come over here to templates on the left and then go ahead and click on the miscellaneous card to choose this. And then we're going to come down here to this bottom one, the Halbert headline generator. Click on that. And once you are in, you will see you need to fill out some of these things right here, but you can come down here and create a form data from a URL. We just need the URL and I can just go over here, grab the URL from the advertorial, paste that in and hit submit. So that's just the URL to my flexi page that has the advertorial on it. And now it's going to scan the site, extract the essentials. And now it's going to go through some background functions while it works on researching that page. Okay. And all right, it has now you can see generated the form for this. So we've got families with children and you can adjust this, modify these, go through these if you want. I'm just going to go with what it came up with here and click generate ad and scroll up. You'll see them coming out here on the left very, very quickly. Okay. And so we now have 40 headlines that we could use on here. These tend to be a little bit on the shorter side. So MIT graduate unveils the lantern that ends mosquito madness. How families conquered mosquitoes without a single chemical. Stop mosquitoes cold. The high tech zapper families are raving about a new flash beam lantern crushes mosquitoes, thrills outdoor lovers. Winning innovation, the lantern that mosquitoes can't resist. Finally, a mosquito solution safe for kids and pets. Mosquitoes obliterated by award-winning zapper. Here's how. All right, so you've got 40 headlines in here. There is also a fantastic course. So these, you can download these. You can copy them out. You can edit these if you want. So you've got a lot of options. So you can just pull from here, whatever headlines that you might want to use there. If you want to learn about writing fantastic headlines, you come over to learning right here on the left. And then in here, I think in search for trainings, we can say headline, search for headline, biggest headline mistakes to avoid. So just search for headline, headline mistakes to avoid, and click on that one. And it will take you to this and you can unlock this training here. And it's a really great training with Stefan Georgi and Justin Goff, live call with their clients going through training on headlines and what makes good headlines. And then you'll see them fixing up and providing suggestions for improved headlines on some of their stuff. So that's how you can write headlines using freeadcopy. And then here's a little training showing you the components that make up a really good headline and how to structure a really good headline at the very beginning of this video. You're going to see gives a headlines elements checklist here. Curiosity, call out pain point, promise the solution, use specificity, use simplicity. There should be credibility on addressing skepticism and a timeframe to achieve results of the promise. Great headlines don't always have all seven, but they will have a lot of these, if not all seven. And you can definitely work to get all seven into your headline to make sure that your headlines are strong. Okay, so that's it. Freeadcopy.com. You can use the templates, miscellaneous and the Halbert generator. When you've generated them, they'll be over here in my ads. So if I come over here to my ads, then I'll see this at the top here. MIT headline generator and clicking here. And I can see, I can even continue working and open these back up here so that I have my 40 headlines right over here to use. Okay, that is it. That's how you generate headlines using the freeadcopy.com for your advertorial.


---
Title: Gifster (1)
Video ID: ucrw84JSj_OoMMQE

Welcome, digital creators and marketing innovators. I'm your BTS coach BTS, and today I'm excited to introduce you to a groundbreaking tool that's set to revolutionize the way you create ad images. Welcome to Gifster, your automated solution for crafting animated GIFs with ease. We all know the power of an animated GIF in boosting click-through rates. They capture attention, convey emotions, and most importantly, drive action. But the complexity of creating them, that's been a barrier for too many. Until now. Gifster is here to change the game. With Gifster, gone are the days of wrestling with complicated software for a single animation. Now you can create hundreds of animations for your ads and landing pages in just a fraction of the time it used to take. Here's how it works. Imagine having the vast library of YouTube at your fingertips, ready to be transformed into dynamic GIFs for your campaigns. With Gifster, you can search for any video, select your desired segment, and voila, a perfectly looped GIF is born. Customization is key in ad creation, which is why Gifster allows you to set the length of your GIF from 1 to 5 seconds, ensuring they're just right for catching eyes without wearing out their welcome. Plus, you can tailor the dimensions to fit all PixelPress banner sizes, making integration seamless. And when you're ready, downloading your new arsenal of GIFs is as simple as a click. From there, uploading them into PixelPress for your campaigns is effortless. Gifster not only saves you time, but also elevates the quality and effectiveness of your ad creatives. In the digital marketing realm, standing out is not just an option, it's a necessity. Gifster arms you with the capability to create captivating, high-converting animated GIFs that make your ads impossible to ignore. Embrace the future of ad creation with Gifster, and let's make every click count.


---
Title: How to Know Whether to Use Metric Mover or Individual Landing Pages
Video ID: kH8f1WPQ5KaC60Kl

In this video, I'm going to show you how to know whether to set up a metric mover campaign or not when split testing your landing pages. So we are at this point where we have gathered together our marketing assets, and whether that's an advertorial for your landing page or a jump bridge page for your product, your landing page has variants that you wanna set up and we need to set up a test, but you're wondering, how do I know whether I need to set up a metric mover project to test this or, should I just use cloned flexi pages? Well, here's how you tell the difference. For metric mover, the main content will be held constant, and you're only going to test a few select variables, such as a headline and a hero shot. Typically only one or two variables. I would say probably max at three because the combinations grow very large very quick. It's because you multiply the number of each of these variables times all the others in order to get your total number of page variants. So, each variant of every element is paired with each variant of all the other variables. So if you have five headlines and five hero shots, then that becomes five times five or 25 total page variants. If you, for example, decided, oh, I'd also like to test five different sub-headlines, now we're talking five times five times five, that's 125 page variants that we are testing, which you're going to need to get a lot of clicks to those 125 pages in order to be able to hit any sort of statistical significance and have any sort of meaningful data. So, typically you wanna keep these sets on the smaller side or have very few of one paired with quite a few of another. For example, you could do 20 headlines and two hero shots and that would be 40 page variants. So, you could do a large set of one and a smaller set of another or two reasonably sized sets. It's not crazy to do 10 and 10 for headlines and hero shots, but keep in mind that every single one of your headlines is going to be paired up with every single one of your hero shots in one of those page variants. So this works best when the content is held the same and the headlines and the hero shots are similar enough that everyone could be paired with all of the others and it still make sense. So that's when you use metric mover, when you wanna do some massive mixing and matching and try to find which headline paired with which hero shot is going to perform the best. Now, contrasted against that, we would simply clone some flexi pages if we have headlines and hero shots that are intentionally paired together. We don't want them to mix and match. So we have a headline number two that is specifically crafted to go with hero shot number two and headline number three is specifically crafted to go with the idea of hero shot number three. But the original control headline would not go well with hero shot number two and we don't want the headline of the control to mix with the hero shot that is supposed to go with only headline number two and so on. So each of these pages have a headline and a hero shot that are intentionally paired together, but we don't want mixing and matching. Or in the other case, the page content is different. It might be because each page has a completely different angle and so it looks totally different. All the content, the images, everything is different. It might be that you're testing different lengths. So you have a shorter page versus a longer page. It might be because it has different content in the body. For example, you're testing different leads, the short section under the hero shot of lead in text that you're testing different leads and so the body content is different on your different pages. Or you want to test changing multiple elements on a page. You want to mess with different pictures in the body content, different texts in the body content, changing up some of the sub headlines, moving some sections of the advertorial around where you have multiple elements on the page that are all going to be different from one another. Those you want to clone and make separate flexi pages for. So to sum up, metric mover is when you want to mix and match all of the elements that you are testing and keep in mind they're all going to be paired with one another but we hold the main content of the page constant, and it does not change. We use cloned flexi pages either when we don't want mixing and matching of the variables, we intentionally want to pair them together, or when the page content is going to be different from one page to another in one way or another. So that's the basics of how to know whether you need a metric mover campaign or simply cloned flexi pages for your campaign. So based on your assets and what you are testing for, you're now going to choose whether to set up a metric mover campaign or the cloned flexi pages and we will get to that in the next videos.


---
Title: Landing Page Overview
Video ID: S6xPQW4tkWxUHXG4

Now that you've selected your offer, we're going to go into the next step of our setup. I'm going to use Skeeter Strike here as an example. This is not a recommendation for you to run Skeeter Strike. This is not me saying, oh, you should run Skeeter Strike. In fact, out of the list of products, Skeeter Strike is probably one of my least favorite, but I needed to choose one to use as an example. And so I'm using Skeeter Strike as an example. That doesn't mean Skeeter Strike is a good or a bad product to promote. It simply is the one that I chose for this example. Please choose one that makes sense to you. And keep in mind, some of these products are seasonal. There aren't a lot of mosquitoes in the wintertime. And so running a Skeeter Strike campaign during the winter probably doesn't make a lot of sense. Do your own research, go through the products, make your own selection based on your gut and your life experience and what you think would sell well. I'm going to use Skeeter Strike. If we go back and look at our setup, notice that we've got our e-commerce product page. This is the end of our funnel. This is where the sales transaction happens and we make money. So this is the last step in the funnel. And what we do is we build this funnel back to front. All right. A funnel is simply a set of steps that a customer would go through online in order to make a purchase or take another desired action. In this case, purchasing this is the very last step. And so they land on this e-commerce product page. That is not in your control. Our job is now to make a landing page that connects with this sales mechanism. So we need the messaging to be congruent and we need to direct people to the product page in such a way that they are primed and ready to purchase. We will do that with our landing page. So we move one step backwards in the funnel so that we can keep our congruity between the e-com product page, our sales mechanism, and our advertorial, our landing page, which could also be called a pre-sales mechanism, in that it performs the functions of pre-sales, warming up and pre-framing the offer for the customer. So we will set up our advertorial next. And for that, we will go into Flexi and get our advertorial all set up. You'll need to configure the basic settings of your Flexi account first, and then we'll work on getting the specific page and advertorial set up.


---
Title: Metric Mover 10 - How to Embed Metric Mover Code in Flexy Page
Video ID: GQAmtNUaJhPUi2XE

In this video, I'm going to show you how to embed your MetricMover page code into your Flexi page. Go ahead and open up this TXT file, the embed code TXT, and then you're going to select all. I use Ctrl-A on a PC and then Ctrl-C to copy all of that text there. Now I'm going to go over to my Flexi page. This is the one that we set up with the blank page with the custom HTML JavaScript, this code here. And once that element is selected, you'll notice if it's not selected and you've got something else, you'll have different options in the right. So just make sure that you click on to select that custom HTML JavaScript code element. And then to the right, you'll see this open code editor. You want to click on that. It will open this box for code editing and you will now paste in the code that you just copied out of that text document. I'm going to use Ctrl-V on my PC to paste it all in. And then I'm simply going to click save. And now we've got the code saved in this element. We are going to publish this page. That will take care of both the saving and the publishing. After you publish it, if you open it up, you'll notice it still looks to be a blank white page. In the next video, I will show you how to check the different variants to make sure that these pages are displaying properly.


---
Title: Metric Mover 11 - How to Check Metric Mover Page Variants
Video ID: opcXFc3SMSBLIiGC

In this video, I'm going to show you how to check your metric mover page variants because as we saw in the last video, if you click this and go to this page, it still appears to be blank. So go ahead and find that same folder where you got the embed code file. And one of the ones in there will be named file names.txt. Go ahead and open that document. And inside, you will see a list of URLs. You can go ahead and copy one of these URLs out here and we'll open this in a new browser tab. I'm going to paste in that URL. You'll notice on the end of it, we have this V tag bit with headline one dash one, V one and hero two dash V one. And now when I navigate to this, if it's working correctly, our advertorial will populate with our headline version one and our hero shot version one. So that has happened and that's great. Now, if we want to check the other variants, we can come up to where it says V one here. And I'm going to change this to V two on my headline and I'm likewise going to change my hero shot to a V two. So V one, now V two. And I'm going to hit enter on that again and notice now I am on my second headline variant and my second hero shot variant. You can likewise go through these and change the numbers. So headline three, V three, hero V three. And again, I get another. So I'm not going to go through and check all of them. I'm going to trust that they are all working since these are working. But if you want to, you can go through every single variant that you have in your files to make sure that all of the headlines and all of the hero shots are displaying properly. You should also take a look down the page and make sure that the advertorial is displaying properly throughout the whole thing. Possibly check your links to make sure that your DIY tracks T2 link is still appearing properly in there. And once you have taken a look at the variants to make sure they are displaying properly, you are just about ready to get started using these.


---
Title: Metric Mover 12 - How to Find Metric Mover File for DIYTrax Import
Video ID: SJFcj3Wuvea5YXIX

In this video, I'm going to show you how to find the file with your Metric Mover landing pages that you will need to import into DIY tracks to have the landing pages set properly in your DIY tracks campaign. So after you've checked the variants on your landing pages, you want to once again locate the same folder where you have your downloaded files. And one of these, you will notice, is a CSV file that is named tracks, T-R-A-X dash import dot CSV. And that is short for the DIY tracks import file. So that's the import CSV file that you are going to need for your DIY tracks campaign. And in the next video, I will show you how to bring that into your DIY tracks campaign so that your landing pages, your Metric Mover campaign landing pages, properly appear within your DIY tracks campaign.


---
Title: Metric Mover 13 - How to Import Metric Mover Page Variants to DIYTrax
Video ID: Tje2prmaCCdgHnxJ

In this video, I'm going to show you how to import your Metric Mover campaign landing pages into your DIY tracks campaign. First of all, open up DIY tracks, come to the campaigns list, and let's find the campaign that you've set up for this. In this case, I set up this Skeeter Strike demo campaign in this dummy account. That's why it's essentially empty. This is just a training and demonstration account. In the campaign view, you'll start on basic info. We want to navigate over to the landing pages tab and click on that. And in the landing pages tab, to the far right, this dark blue button says upload CSV. You want to click on that and then choose this light gray box that says choose file. And you want to navigate to the Metric Mover export folder once again, where you found your embed code and your file names. And we now want the tracks import.csv file that we found previously. Click on that to select it and then click on open here at the bottom. And now you'll see that tracks import.csv has been chosen and then click this upload button. Automatically, your landing pages should be uploaded here. You should see the full number showing one to 10 of 25. You can use this dropdown to show the full list. And now I can see all 25 of my landing pages in here. Notice that they are automatically set to active with the blue dot. If they're not, you can activate them. And notice that the share is automatically distributed among them. So set to 4% each, which makes sense. 25 pages times 4% each makes 100%. So the math on that checks out. If the percentage share looked a little bit funky, the number was off in any way, you could click this set equal share button to automatically distribute that 100% across all of the active landing pages. In this case, we have 25 and so 4% apiece is correct. That is it. So our Metric Mover landing page variants have now been added to our DIY tracks campaign. And as far as the landing pages go, we are all set and ready to go with this campaign. We've completed our setup using our Metric Mover campaign. And so the landing pages portion of setting up this campaign is now complete.


---
Title: Metric Mover 1 - What You Need for Metric Mover Test
Video ID: WiB6c9ltGwmy36GW

So based on the results of the last video, you've decided that you need a Metric Mover project in order to do your testing. All right, so in this video, I'm going to cover what resources do you need, what things do you need to have open and ready to go in order to set up your Metric Mover test. And obviously, number one is the Metric Mover software. So if you come to your BTS resources, click on the BTS software, come down into here, you'll see the third option here is Metric Mover. Click on Metric Mover, scroll down, and click the Access Metric Mover to open your Metric Mover account in a new tab. Now, you will also need your Flexi account open, and you need your advertorial that you are going to be running, and you want to open up that advertorial so that you have the root of that. This is the one that you have optimized per the previous step. Made sure that it is perfect, that your DIY Tracks T2 link is in there, that the images look good in mobile and desktop, the spacing, the font size, everything is configured perfectly for desktop and mobile exactly the way that you want it to be. We need it ready to go so that we don't have to redo things. And then, of course, you also need the headlines that you want to split test and the hero shots, probably not in the document for the hero shots, but actually that you have the files available in a folder so that you can upload those in a moment. So those are the resources that you're going to need. The Metric Mover program opened up this software open for you, the Flexi page ready to go where you will be able to access and edit. Open it up so that you have the URL of that live Flexi advertorial page. And then you want to have the assets that you're going to split test, whether that's headlines, hero shots, a combination mixture, have those if you have image files, have those in a folder where you're able to upload those easily. That will be all that you need to gather together. In the next video, we will get into how to start setting up your tests.


---
Title: Metric Mover 2 - Creating a New Metric Mover Campaign
Video ID: eDu8RoBsyEdrPqqf

In this video, I'm going to show you how to create a new project in Metric Mover for your campaign. Once you have the Metric Mover software opened up, come up to the top here and you'll see this Create New Project. Click on Create New Project and give this a project title. In this case, Demo Skeeter, and I'm going going to call the folder name just the same thing. Notice that you can't have spaces or weird characters in here. And next, it's going to ask you to import a web page. And in the next video, I will show you how to import your web page for use in your Metric Mover campaign.


---
Title: Metric Mover 3 - How to Import Your Landing Page into Metric Mover
Video ID: DnXrAbOlDjDDUNH1

In this video, I'm going to show you how to import your landing page so that you can make variants using Metric Mover. If you've just created a new campaign, you should see this pop-up that says Import Web Page. If you happen to not see that or it's not there, at the top you also have this option right here that says Import Web Page, and you can click on that and it will open the same overlay pop-up. In this web page URL, this is where we want to put the base landing page URL. So we have set up this advertorial in this case. It could be your bridge page, jump page, whatever landing page you want to use for your Metric Mover test. And we want the base of that. We want the live URL for this. So I'm going to Control-C, copy that out of here, and come over to Metric Mover, and I'm going to give the address of that landing page that I have got all ready to go in. I'm going to paste that in. Now I'm going to click Import, and Metric Mover is going to do a little back-end magic here. It's going to say it's loading this project, and you can see what it did is that it imported our page. It pulled in the full advertorial, just like we had it there on the page, including the heading and everything. So that is how we import our landing page into Metric Mover. In the next video, I'll show you how to start setting up your split test variants.


---
Title: Metric Mover 4 - How to Create Headline Variants in Metric Mover
Video ID: Q6tx9rOk_R2atMXl

In this video, I'm going to show you how to set up variants for split testing your headlines. It's very simple. Take your mouse and you will click on the element that you want to test. So now you can see this green box is around my headline, and on the top right corner of my headline, I have this little tab that says, it has a big kind of plus sign, and it says create a variation. And if you hover, you'll see the title comes up as add tag variation. That's what we want to click on. We want to create a variation of this headline element. So I'm going to click that tab. And now you will see you have the tag title H1-1. Now, you can change this if you want. It's up to you and how you want to modify this. You can have this so it's just an H, or you can write in headline. And now we want to click add variation. So now we have headline one. I'm going to add our second variation here. And in this case, we need our headlines. I have the control, and then I have four more variants. And so we want to add all of those. So that will have a total of five. So I have the control, and then that's great. That's what I want. And then I have headline number two. Now, to add in my second variant, I'm going to click there. And now this box is going to open up. I want to go in here and grab my variant, headline number two, variant number one for me, because my control is already in there. Come back over to MetricMover. If you want it to have the same font family and styling as what's already in here, then we simply need to find where you have the end of this. And it's a greater than symbol, but it ends kind of a code bracket there on the Roboto font. And just put it between these code things. And I'm going to paste my new headline in there. I'm going to say done. So that's number two. And I'm going to go into headline number three. I'm going to come down to the next one and do the same thing. I'm going to copy that, come back over here, same place. I'm going to paste that in and click done and go over here, get the next one, copy that for four, done. And my fifth headline here. Paste that in, done. Okay. So we can click on this now. You'll see it has a preview variation. And now you can click this to see it cycle through the different headlines. All right. And it has same font, same size, same styling as the original. And as you can see, your variants are in there and set up. So now we have our five headlines set up. Those variants have been added for testing on our page. And of course, you want to come up to the right and find the save button and click on that in order to save the headlines that you have added to your project. And now we see project saved successfully. In the next video, I'm going to show you how to upload your images properly so that you can add those in here for split testing. We're actually going to upload those into Flexi in the next video.


---
Title: Metric Mover 5 - How to Upload Hero Shots to Flexy for Use in Metric Mover
Video ID: cnCOvVV4UPHGIF0H

In this video, I'm going to show you how to upload your hero shots in order to create your split test variants for your MetricMover campaign. And we do not upload those directly to MetricMover. Instead, we want to upload those in our Flexi account. So you may be here in your Flexi account. My menu bar is collapsed here on the left. So I'm going to click this little green arrow down at the bottom to expand that. Then I'm going to come up to media storage. And this is where having that folder of your hero shots out and ready to go comes in handy. Now you have a few different options for getting these into your Flexi account. So I'll show you all of them and then you can choose which one you want to use. First, you can select all of your images and simply drag them and drop them into this big bin that is called my media. And they won't be within a folder, but we can drag them and drop them. And if I just let that go here, they will all upload right here into this media storage and they'll all be right here in this main my media. Now, alternatively, you may wish to choose a folder to put them in, which case up here toward the right, you can see this little folder icon. Click on that, enter a name and save that. Now you've got a folder. You can then click into this folder here. And when this folder is open, you can grab your files and drag and drop them into the folder just like we did on the main bin. And in the final option, I'm going to go back out here to my media. I'm going to create another folder where we could upload to save that. I'm going to come into here to Skeeter demo two, and we have this big blue upload, in which case you can then navigate to and find the images in your folders that you wish to upload, select them and click the open button, in which case they will upload here into this folder in your account. Now, hopefully this is obvious, but you only need one set of these images. You don't need three. I just did it three different times to show you the three different ways to get these into your account. If they are sitting out here in your my media bin, that is totally fine. If you have them organized into a folder, that is fine. I'm going to clean this up so that I only have one set of these images because I don't need duplicates of all of them. And then in the next video, I have one folder, Skeeter test one, and it has all of the images in here that I want to split test. In the next video, I will now show you how to use these images in your MetricMover project. So those are the three different ways that you can upload and add these images to your Flexi account for use in your MetricMover project. I like to keep things organized in folders, but there's nothing wrong if you want all of your items out here in your my media bin mixed together. I simply like to have them organized. So in the next video, I will show you how to now use these images in your MetricMover hero shot variants.


---
Title: Metric Mover 6 - How to Create Hero Shot Variants in Metric Mover
Video ID: x48u0Qa3k6uTKZer

In this video, I'm going to show you how to set up variants for your hero shot. This assumes that you have followed the last video and uploaded your images to your Flexi account already. If you have, then in Metric Mover here, you click on the hero shot so that it has the green border around it and it has this little tag in the top right corner that says Create Variation. Click on that once again, just like we did for the headlines. And now you'll see that we have variants added for this hero shot. Now to add the variation, we simply click the Add Variation button. And once again, I have five of these. You may have a different number for your set. It completely depends on what you are testing for. So do not be concerned if you have a different number. I'm using small sets to make it easy for me to demonstrate this, but you may have a set of 10 headlines and 10 hero shots or 20 headlines and 5 hero shots or some other combination. So don't worry about the exact number. I'm simply showing you how to do this. The number may vary with your test. So I've got five of these. One of these is going to be this control, of course, so I'll leave that alone. And then I have the other four over here in my Flexi account. We've just uploaded these following the instructions in the last one. Now, when you hover your mouse over this image, you'll see a few things pop up, including these three dots in the top right. Click on that and then come down to this third option, Get a Link. I'm going to click on that. And in the right, you see it's copied to the clipboard already. I'm going to come back to Metric Mover. I'm going to go to this v2. I am going to select all of that and delete it. And then I'm going to paste in the new one and I'm going to hit Done. And that's going to give me that new image in there. Now this tag title, I noticed that it was a div and this is my hero. So I'm going to change that to hero just so that we can see it more clearly that that's the hero shot. I'm going to come down to number three. I'm going to do the same thing. So I'm going to come over here, get this link, come back to Metric Mover. I'm going to delete all of that. I'm going to replace it with the new and click Done. Now, number four, same thing. Come over here, get that link, come back to Metric Mover, replace everything in there. Done. And number five, last one, same thing. Get this link, come back to Metric Mover, replace everything in here and hit Done. Now we have five variants in this hero shot and you can see this tag has now changed to preview variation. You should be able to click that. Yes. And have it rotate through our different hero shots that we are using. So we've got our control and then we have our four variants for a total of five hero shots. Once again, remember to come up and click the save button to save your project. And that is how you create your split test variants for your hero shot in your Metric Mover project.


---
Title: Metric Mover 7 - How to Set Up Flexy Page for Metric Mover Code
Video ID: l3ZCFRzfQ40LLkCp

In this video, I'm going to show you how to set up your flexi base page for your Metric Mover test. This will be the page where the code from your Metric Mover project will go. If you're in your site where you're going to run live and you have the other advertorial page that you used in Metric Mover, we're going to come up to the top and click this blue add new page button and we'll give this a name. Okay, and I've given it the name, this device prevents mosquito bites and I'm going to create this new page. Scroll down here. Okay, we're going to create from blank and once your builder comes up, it's going to ask you about adding a section. Just go ahead and add a full width section here and we'll add a one column row and then we're going to add an element and this is going to be, if you scroll down here, code element. All right, and if we click on here, have that selected over here, you're going to see open code editor. But for now, this is good. We're here and I'm going to save this page. After you save the page, the only other thing that we really need to edit here is the SEO metadata and in the content here, you can simply put in the title here and update that. Basically, I just updated it so it matches what I put here in the URL, which is benefit driven, this device prevents mosquito bites. We're going to save this and in the next video, I will show you how to get the code that we will put in this page from your Metric Mover project.


---
Title: Metric Mover 8 - How to Export Metric Mover Campaign Files
Video ID: IqPQvXZ2LE8hMqmj

In this video, I'm going to show you how to generate and export the code from Metric Mover for your Metric Mover campaign that you're going to place onto your Flexi page. If you come up to the top right here, you'll see this option Generate Flexi page code. You want to click on that and you will have this overlay pop up where it asks for the page URL, where you're going to show this Metric Mover campaign embed. So that's why we set up our Flexi page beforehand. I'm going to go over here and we can either right click on this and copy the link address, or you're welcome to click on this so that it opens up in a new tab. It'll be a blank page. That's fine. And then you can copy this URL. In any case, you want the URL for this blank page over here. And in Metric Mover, we're going to paste this in. It's important that we have that exact URL for this page where we're going to place the code. And then we click on Generate once we give it that proper URL. And once it's done, you'll have a Save As dialog box pop up and you can navigate to the folder where you want this Metric Mover saved. And you may want to name it Metric Mover so that you can find it easily. It's going to be a zip file in here. And I'm going to save it to this folder. And that's it. That's how we are going to export our Metric Mover campaign code. In the next video, I'll show you how to find the correct file in that downloaded zip after you extract the files within it. And then we will get to the business of putting that code on our Flexi page.


---
Title: Metric Mover 9 - How to Find Metric Mover Code File
Video ID: IOpVmngKoubVwHpD

In this video, I'm going to show you how to find the code file so that you have the code that we will place on our Flexi page from the Metric Mover download. So I have this zip file exported, and we want to extract all the files that are within this Metric Mover zip. If you are on a PC, you can right-click and then choose Extract All and choose the place where this will be extracted. And what you should have is this folder now that came out. In this case, it's called Demo Skeeter for me. And the code is conveniently labeled here. You should see embedcode.txt. That is the file that we need, and we will open that up and use this code in here for our Metric Mover project. So for now, that's it. That's how you locate the correct file. It is this one that says embed-code.txt. In the next video, I'll show you how to take that code and place it in your Flexi page.


---
Title: Metric Mover (1)
Video ID: 9FQkRbOSSrI3JMML

Hey there, savvy marketers and digital entrepreneurs. I'm the BTS team, and today I'm thrilled to introduce you to MetricMover, the groundbreaking landing page split tester that's revolutionizing how we optimize our online campaigns. Picture this, doubling your agency's profit by leveraging the power of efficient, effective split testing. That's exactly what MetricMover has done for us. Gone are the days of the tedious manual process of tweaking and testing landing pages. With MetricMover, creating thousands of split tests isn't just possible, it's easy and quick. Whether you're testing a single headline, a hero shot, or an entire page layout, MetricMover handles it all with unparalleled grace. Imagine testing every critical element on your landing page. Headlines, subheadlines, hero shots, lead paragraphs, calls to action, new layouts, you name it. If it's HTML, MetricMover can test it, optimizing your pages to perfection. And the magic doesn't stop there. With seamless integration into DIY tracks, you can upload all your split test variations and rotate through each one to pinpoint the winners. All without breaking a sweat. This isn't just about making minor improvements. It's about unleashing the full potential of your landing pages, driving unprecedented engagement and skyrocketing conversions. MetricMover makes it all possible, transforming your split testing from a chore to your competitive edge. Join the ranks of top performing marketers and agencies who've already made the leap. With MetricMover, you're not just moving metrics, you're moving mountains. Ready to double your profits and elevate your split testing game? Welcome to the future of landing page optimization. Welcome to MetricMover.


---
Title: Optimize Landing Page Base Copy
Video ID: 5L5xzma9KyGtrrrZ

In this video, we are going to work on optimizing the base copy of our landing page. So whether that's an advertorial or a jump page, whatever your base copy of your landing page is, we want to optimize it by making sure all the elements are straight. You've already got your links set up properly. Your DIY tracks T2 link should be in your landing page in all of the places that have links based on the last videos. So using the custom values or just putting it in there directly, either way, your DIY tracks T2 link should be in every image that is linked, every button that is linked, every text snippet that is linked should have your DIY tracks T2 link appearing in it. Now we want to work on the other elements of the page. So come find your landing page that you've set up. In this case, it's this advertorial for our Skeeter Strike device. And now we want to work on optimizing the rest of the setup. We want to focus on doing that on this copy right now because we want to make as little work for ourselves as possible. And so if we get everything set up kind of perfectly on this first base copy of the advertorial, when we either duplicate this page for our other variants and split testing, or we take it and we put it into Metric Mover, all of the base things that make this page look good, function right, have the right information in there, will be in there correct. And then we won't have to go back and do it again. Or if you create duplicate pages, you won't have to change all of those things in every single one of your copies because the base that you copied has been done correctly the first time. One of the things to look for is spacing of elements. How much white space is being used? Do you want this much white space or do you want more to appear above the fold? And you want to remove white space in here. I am a fan of psyching up some of this white space, getting this advertorial disclaimer that we need at the top as close to the top as possible, reducing some of this white space between this line and the headline here, things like that. You may want to watch the dates, whether they are relevant or make this thing look really old, what kind of date you want on this. You might change that up, check the images, make sure they are good, make sure that the grammar, the bold and italics and things like that have been done through here, that they make sense and align with how you want things to be. Watch for spelling errors, grammatical errors, things that don't make sense or stand out as a mistake. And you want to go through and just audit and make sure that this thing is cleaned up as well as it possibly can be. And so you're going through here and making sure all the elements are set up properly on this, that it all looks good. And then once you do that for the desktop, you want to do it on the mobile. Now, when you edit this page, you have a mobile view here. We're going to come in here and edit. And this is how you're going to make the changes when you look at it. So I recommend looking at it in this live and to see for the formatting, anything that might need to be changed and then come back over here into the editor to make those actual changes. Now, the mobile view is very important because you're going to have a great deal of traffic coming from mobile. If you look at the top here, you do have mobile mode here and you can click on that. And that will allow you to see and edit this in mobile. But this doesn't exactly give you a full on view of what the mobile experience is like because it is the editor. So it has extra things in here. Now, if you are on a PC, you can click control shift I to bring up your developer controls. And then wherever this bar shows up for you, sometimes it'll show up on the bottom. Some people show on the right. There are different configurations for this developer bar. You want to look for this little device thing. It looks kind of like a laptop and then a phone in front of it. You want to click on that. And I typically choose this dimensions and do responsive and do this top iPhone SE. And then I will refresh the page to make sure that I am getting that view. Now, what we call above the fold is what appears here without scrolling. And one of the big things that you may or may not notice, but that I certainly noticed and stands out is that the hero shot is not appearing here in the section above the fold. That image, I have to scroll to see it. I want the hero shot and probably a little bit more if possible to show up above the fold. That means that I need to get rid of a lot of this white space here. I need to probably decrease the font size or the line spacing on this headline and change up some things, probably this font size also needs to decrease in order to get this above the fold. So there's some edits and some changes and adjustments that I need to make so that this thing will look good in mobile and not just in desktop. The other thing that stands out in mobile here to me is that these are long, dense paragraphs. I probably want to break these up because people are probably not going to want to read dense paragraphs of text. So I'll probably break those into individual lines, break up the text, make it a little easier for them to consume this advertorial. And notice this sub-headline here is a little bit too big in the mobile view. And so those are the things that we're going to look for. Go through here and edit and make sure that this thing looks good in mobile. The other thing that you can do is grab this URL up here at the top, email that to yourself and then open it up on your phone and look at it. I love to do that. Take this URL for the page, email it to yourself, look at how this thing appears on your phone and then make edits in order to make it appear the way that you would want it formatted properly for this. Here I can see I've got a lot of different elements here. If you want to see the full on the layers of this page, you can go here. Now we've got this header and you've got general and then styles in here. These are extra padding. So for example, watch this where I take this down to zero. Notice how that now moved that advertorial right up to the top. Now I'm not wasting that white space up there. And similarly, this has a bottom and I'm going to take that to zero. This section here has 20. I'm probably going to make that five. I think a little bit is okay, but more than that, I don't need. Here, this, make that zero. This, okay. This, make that zero. Okay. Bottom here, probably five. Let's see if that has anything in it. No. This one, okay. This one at zero. Okay, I'm going to click save here and then I'm going to publish that as well. So it'll make it live on the page. And then I'm going to refresh over here and now you can see those changes have been applied over here in the mobile view. And now we're starting to get closer where my hero image is almost showing. Then I need to go in and just make my headline smaller, change up this text to make that smaller. So I can come in here and I can go into, let's see, headline. I could make this font size a little bit smaller. Yeah. Okay, still got good there. Line height 1.2. There we go. Eating up some of that white space there. This sub headline, 18. 1.2. There we go. Let's see if the, there's a lot of padding below that and probably below this. Let's see, 10 there and 10 there. This, I want to make that much smaller font size. This is not super important. Maybe we want to update this date to make it look more recent. Something like that. Let's see what I've got here for padding. It might be at the bottom of this box. Image. Paragraph. Okay, so it's under here. Make that 10. There we go. All right, save. Publish. Refresh. Okay, boom. Much better. So now in mobile, I'm definitely going to take this URL and email it to myself and take a look at it. But now I can see, at least here in this mobile view, mock mobile view on the desktop, I can see that I've got the logo and everything in here. Headline, sub headline, the byline for the writer. And then I've got my hero shot plus a line. So now I've accomplished my goal of getting the hero shot at least above the fold, which is much better. I still have these dense paragraphs of text that I want to break up and some other changes that I will make. So I'm going to edit this thing up and make it look perfect. Just want to make sure that this thing looks good in mobile. So make whatever edits and changes that you need to in here. You can toggle back and forth between the desktop and the mobile view. And notice that if I go out of here and into the desktop view, the styling is different for the desktop view and it still has the white space in the desktop view. So in your desktop editor, you've still got more white space and things. So there are mobile and there are desktop controls. So for the font sizes, the images, spacing, you have both mobile controls and you have desktop view controls to style and format this page the way that you want it to be, the way that you believe it's going to be most effective for your campaigns. So get this one base page set up perfectly. Check it, double check it


---
Title: Pixel Press (1)
Video ID: vA7IOa_12U66yEFl

Hey affiliate marketers, I'm the BTS team, and today I'm thrilled to introduce you to a revolutionary tool that's going to change the way you create and test banner ads. Meet PixelPress, the bulk banner creator designed by traffic experts for traffic experts. In the world of digital marketing, speed and efficiency in testing can mean the difference between a campaign that soars and one that flops. With PixelPress, you can generate not just hundreds, but thousands of banner ad variations in mere minutes. This tool is about to become your secret weapon in the traffic game. Imagine having the ability to quickly test different headlines, body texts, call-to-actions, and images across all your banners. PixelPress makes this not only possible, but incredibly simple. With just a few clicks, you can optimize every element of your ad to ensure maximum engagement and conversion. Split testing is at the heart of what makes PixelPress so powerful. Create variations on the fly and optimize your campaigns based on real data. Plus, with our built-in image optimization feature, you'll never have to worry about file sizes slowing down your load times. Starting from scratch? No problem. PixelPress offers a range of template layouts to kickstart your creativity. Whether you're looking for something sleek and professional, or fun and eye-catching, we've got you covered. And when you're ready to go live, PixelPress streamlines the process, allowing you to output your banner ads into single or multiple zip files based on your campaign needs. It's about making your workflow as efficient as possible from creation to launch. With PixelPress, you're not just creating banners, you're crafting winning campaigns. It's time to leave the competition behind with ads that not only look great, but also drive results. PixelPress isn't just a tool, it's your new team member, ready to take your banner creation to the next level.


---
Title: ROUND 1 - What To Do If Campaign and Banners Turn Off Before 1500 Spend
Video ID: AoYDsuEmlFpTMPX0

In this video, I'm going to talk about what to do if all of your banners turn inactive and your campaign turns inactive before you hit $1,500 in total spend. So this might happen because, say, you turned off some of your banners early, or maybe because it just undershot on the spend for some of the banners and they didn't reach, in this case, I had 15, so they should have spent a full 100 each, and they simply did not hit that target before some of these banners flipped off, may have inactivated them, maybe ones that I want to turn off. So what you will need to do is you will need to flip back on banners that you want to continue to run some more and run out the rest of that spend. And so in this case, this big banner, I don't think it's going to perform very well. The other banners that had that same messaging got a lot of clicks, but they didn't perform super well. None of these with a big size here performed well in this campaign, so I'm probably going to cut that one. But I can't because my spend here is low. You may have all yours already inactive, but your spend is below and it automatically turned off. It should not have. It won't let me turn this one off because I haven't reached my threshold and I have to have at least one active. So I'm going to go ahead and activate both of these that got purchases again because I would like to see those guys spend some more. And I'm going to go ahead and turn this one off again. Yours may have already all been off. Now, if your campaign already turned off, then you will need to go over to your basic settings tab. And when you are in this basic info tab here, this toggle on yours may have flipped off automatically, even though it didn't quite hit the $1,500 in spend. Turn your banners that you want to continue running, your best ones, most likely, back on and then click this toggle to activate your campaign again. Mine's already on, so I don't need to hit that toggle. I'm simply reactivating some of my banners that worked well to continue running those to the end of the $1,500. Now, if your banners had turned inactive automatically after hitting their spend, then what will happen when you reactivate them and turn the campaign back on or when you reactivate them with their campaign still running is they're going to get another share of spend that would have been the evenly distributed amount across all the banners. So in this case, when I uploaded 15 and did $1,500 in spend, it said, okay, that's $100 per banner. So when I flip these back on, what it's saying is, hey, spend each of these another $100 in ad spend. And so I'm going to spend out another couple of hundred dollars there. And then most likely, I'll probably need to turn another one back on in order to get all the way up to my $1,500 in spend because I'm about $300, $325 short of my spend here. And so I'll probably need to flip this one back on again. It has two purchases, assuming it stays in the lead, unless the other one pulls ahead with an extra purchase or something. But that is what I would do in order to run out this $1,500, is reactivate banners, my best banners, in order to get up to that $1,500. Once you get up to that $1,500, then you'll see the traffic source settings open up where you're able to upload new banners and creatives and things like that. So that is what to do if your campaign has turned off or all of your banners have turned inactive, but you haven't yet hit the $1,500. You do have to reactivate some banners and, if necessary, reactivate the campaign so that it does spend all the way up to that $1,500 minimum.


---
Title: ROUND 1 - When to Make a Banner Inactive
Video ID: gRtqkO8S6Gq8WYRm

In this video, I'm going to show you how and why to set one of these banners to inactive in your DIY Trax campaign. So you might be wondering, when should I deactivate one of my banners? How will I know that it's underperforming? And so when we have at least $25 in spend on a banner, if you're able to catch it, where it is performing particularly low compared to the others, and so main metric I'm looking for if it's not purchases is LP event CTR. And so here I have one that has $29 in spend and it has one of the lowest LP event CTRs out of my set. It is quite far down here. It's had 30 clicks on the banner, but only two clicks through on the landing page, 6.67%, pretty low. And so I am going to go ahead and flip this guy inactive because he's had enough spend to know better. Oh, it's not performing well. We can cut that. So if you find something, if you're able to capture something and you have others that are performing much better, you're reasonably confident that one is a low performer, go ahead and cut it. Not going to hurt you too much. It may mean that we need to reactivate some of these other banners that were performing better in order to make up for that spend. This guy at the bottom here, he might be one to cut. He's only had 11 clicks and only $10.75 in spend. So it's a judgment call, but we might consider giving him another $15 in spend, get up to a $25 range before we cut it. And this guy up here has only had eight ad clicks and he's only had $7 in spend. So has had one click currently that's in the top three, but it could go either way very quickly. So we might give each of those a little more spend. Let them get to at least $25 in spend before we make a determination. And that is how you know when to cut one. So I cut this guy, he had $29 in spend and was one of my lowest performers in terms of landing page CTR. So I just know at $14.50 per landing page click, I'm never going to make that work. I'm never going to get that to be profitable, or at least it's highly, highly unlikely unless they're converting at a very high rate. And I didn't get any conversions there so far. And so it's time to cut that and I will probably push spend. I'll probably end up reactivating this guy right here that had two purchases because that seemed to be resonating better. And so I'll probably flip that one back on and see if it can't get another purchase or something in there. So that one was in the green. That is it. That's how you know when to turn off one of these banners early in your campaign.


---
Title: Scrape Bot (1)
Video ID: wnf8YlB9rxQ3XCUm

Hey there, affiliate marketing enthusiasts. I'm the BTS team, and today I've got something truly special for you. Introducing ScrapeBot, the Chrome extension designed to revolutionize the way you source images for your online campaigns. In the fast-paced world of digital marketing, finding the perfect images for your banner ads and advertorial pages can be a daunting task. That's where ScrapeBot comes in. Developed to seamlessly integrate with Google, Bing, and DuckDuckGo, ScrapeBot is your one-stop solution for image scraping. Imagine having the ability to effortlessly locate and download high-quality images directly from your browser. With ScrapeBot, that's not just possible, it's your new reality. No more endless searching. No more worrying about the image rights. Just the images you need when you need them. Using ScrapeBot is as simple as clicking a button. Once activated, it scours your chosen search engine for images related to your keywords. Then, with just one more click, you can download them directly to your computer. It's that easy. And the best part? ScrapeBot is just one piece of the puzzle. When used in conjunction with CropBot for precise image editing and PixelPress for campaign integration, you've got a powerhouse trio that eliminates the need for Photoshop altogether. With ScrapeBot, we're not just scraping the surface of what's possible in digital marketing. We're redefining efficiency and creativity, making it easier than ever to create compelling, visually stunning campaigns that captivate and convert. Ready to evaluate your image sourcing game? ScrapeBot is here to make it happen.


---
Title: Submit Ad Banner Split Test Media to Compliance
Video ID: CQLHY815A5YYg9Gu

In this video, I'm going to cover submitting your banner ad assets to compliance for a check before you run them. Once you've gathered together your banner ad assets, your headlines, and your images, however many that may be, you want to submit those to compliance. Now, it is very important that you make the job as easy as possible for compliance. So if you're going to be mixing and matching headlines and images and creating a bunch of variants out of those, please do not send all of the variants. For example, I have five different headlines and one image, and then I'm going to duplicate this across three different sizes of banners. So I'll have a total of 15 ad banners. But I do not need to send compliance a full set of 15 banners because the breakdown on this is that I have actually five headlines and I have one image. And so I need to send simply five headlines and one image to compliance for a check and break them up. Keep it simple. Keep your images separate from your headlines so that compliance is able to go through these very quickly and very easily. Similar to submitting for advertorial, come into your portal, resources, compliance form. It'll bring you to this page. Fill out your name, email, name of the product you're promoting. Once again, we have these two options, Google Drive link or the creative zip file. So we can either create a new folder here for our banner test. All right, Skeeter banners test one demo. Create that folder. And then once again, we can upload our assets here that we have. I've got my headlines in this document. Here they are. I've got my one banner image right here. And so we can come back up out of here and we can take this. I'm going to take it. I'm going to drop it. I'm going to drop it into this Skeeter banners test folder. So I'll show you that. It's being dropped into that folder. And so they have this file. Alternatively, I have everything in this document nice and clean and neat. And so I might click this little folder up here and put this in my Z compliance banners and move it right there. And I should now see that document show up in here. And there it is. And so you could bring in this Google Doc in a similar way. Either way, have that, share this, the banners right here, either here, share. Make sure that the share settings are anyone with the link can view. Copy that link. Done and paste. Make sure you've shared the access and say yes. So once again, I've shown you two options, one, the Google Doc, and two, the actual files in Notepad with the headlines and the image file itself. You don't need all three of these. You simply need the headlines and the image in one form or the other. So either this image and this document with the headlines or this Google Doc that has the headlines and that one image in it for check. You just need one of those. I've shown you both options. Likewise, you have the other option here. If you did not do a Google Drive folder and you need to do a zip folder, you can do that. Once again, right click, send to compressed folder, and it's zipped. And then we can upload that zip by dragging and dropping. And now it will upload right here. And once that completes, we will be able to submit. Notice that I have changed my note here to let them know that these are banner ad headlines and image. If you have more than one image, yours would be plural. I'm letting them know this is for banner ads. That's important so that they are checking it for banner ad compliance. And then you would click submit and send that off to compliance for a check while we set up the rest of our campaign and wait to get a response from compliance letting us know that we have the green light to use these assets in our advertising.


---
Title: Submit Advertorial Split Test Media to Compliance
Video ID: tWzQjINBDVzCdNiw

In this video, we're going to cover submitting your advertorial or other landing page split test assets to compliance for a compliance check to make sure that you are allowed to run the marketing materials that you have gathered. So if you have your headlines and your hero shots that you intend to run, we're going to gather those together and we're going to submit them to compliance at this point so that we have them in time to run our campaign, have a response from compliance letting us know whether our creatives are allowed to run or not. If you come to your BTS portal and hover over resources, then come down, you'll see compliance form. Click on that and you will land on this page right here. Submit your creative for a compliance review. Fill this out pretty straightforward. Name, email, name of the offer that you are promoting. Then you have two different options here. Create a Google Drive link to your creative folder. And if you don't have a Google Drive link, you can zip it below. So I'll show you both options here. Google Drive is fairly straightforward. You would create a Google Drive folder. I've named mine compliance demo just for a place to put this. And here I'm going to put in a new folder, Skeeter Advert split test one demo. I'm going to name it so that I know it's my first test of this advertorial and you should name yours so that you know what the folder is and probably keep them all in one folder and name them so that you know which test you are on. Inside of this, I need to place my headlines and my hero shots separately. And so I have my headlines here and I'm going to one, either create a notepad document for these. So I will copy and I'll get all of this right here. Copy that, come into some sort of plain text editor, notepad document. And so I will paste those in here and now I've got my advertorial split test headlines in here. I'm going to do save as. Okay, Skeeter Advert Test 1 headlines. I'm going to save that there. And then I'm going to go ahead and put it in this folder here. So I will find that Skeeter Advert Test 1 headlines.txt. Drop that in there. And then I am also going to get my images or my hero shots. And so I've got this folder that has my four hero shots in it. And so once again, I can simply take those and drag and drop those into this folder as well. And so now I have my hero shots and my advertorial test. And right up here, this is my Skeeter Strike advert split test 1. Click on this and come to share. And then I want to go to share. And you want to make sure that you change this access so that anyone with the link can view as a viewer. And then you want to go ahead and copy this link. Hit done and then you come back to your compliance submission form and you paste in your Google Drive. And it's going to ask you if you've double checked that you shared the correct folder access with concierge team and that you have given them access to it. And if you have shared access appropriately, click this box before submitting. And in this box, you can tell them that this is, okay, so I'm going to tell them here Skeeter Strike first campaign, Advertorial Split Test of headlines and hero shots. The body copy is the same as on the template. Now the other option here is that you can upload a zip file of your items. And so what we would do is we would take these headlines and our hero shots. And I'm going to do a new folder here. I'm going to call this compliance. I'm going to go ahead and take my headlines and drag and drop those into that advert one compliance and my hero shots as well. And then I have both of those in here, hero shots and my headlines in this folder. And I am now going to right click on this and then come down to end to and then compressed zipped folder. Click that. And now we've got this advert one compliance dot zip, which we can now, I'll show dragging and dropping into this field right here. I'm going to grab it and I'm going to drag it and drop it in here. And now you can see this file, advert one compliance dot zip. And it has now uploaded. And once it finishes uploading, then the submit button. To be clear, you do not need to do both of these. So if you submit a Google Drive link, you don't need a zipped folder. And if you create a zipped folder, you don't need the Google Drive link. So one or the other is sufficient. You don't need to do both. I've showed you both so that you know how to do each option, but you only need one of those. Make sure you fill out the form entirely. Your first name, last name, your email, the name of the offer that you're promoting, and then put in your Google Drive link folder and make sure that you shared access. Click. Yes, you've shared access when you have shared the access or alternatively, upload a zip file that includes both the headlines and hero shots that you're split testing. And then you can leave a little note for the compliance check as well. It's important for them to know that this is for your advertorial or your landing page because the compliance is different on a landing page than it is for your ad banners. And so you want to make sure that the compliance team knows they are checking this for compliance on a landing page. Compliance on a landing page is much easier. The bar is much lower. We're much safer on our landing pages than we are on our ad banners. And so you don't want the compliance team checking your advertorial or jump page assets as if they were going to be used on ad banners because they're going to use a much more strict filtering process if they think that these are for ad banners. So you want to make sure it's very clear either by saying advertorial or landing page or bridge page, jump page, whatever it is you're using, make sure that they know it's on the landing page. For that, once you've completed this form, go ahead and hit submit and then wait for a response from compliance before you are able to run these assets live in a campaign. However, we can go ahead with the next steps of setting up our campaign while we wait for compliance to review these items.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Caterpillar RD2 vid 1 cropbot 9x16 image 2025-10-21
Video ID: Q4bysJqru0ye7YHs

Okay, so while we wait for our round one headline testing to conclude, we can begin preparing for round two testing, which is placements. In this case, we're going to take our 16 by 9 static image that we used in round one with our different headlines, and now we need to create the other five placements. So this is the 16 by 9 image. We also need a portrait style 9 by 16, so tall and skinny. And then we also want a GIF in, or GIF, you can say it either way, we also want a GIF in 16 by 9 and a 9 by 16 GIF, and then we need movie files that are 16 by 9 and 9 by 16, all from this base image that we started with, so that we're preserving that basic concept that we are using with our headline test. And so in this video, I'm going to show you how to use CropBot in order to get the other version of this image, and that is a 9 by 16 image. And so if you come over to the BTS resources, of course, in the software, you have CropBot, and you can download this. This is an extension app that lives in your browser, and you have access to this CropBot. And so in your browser, here I'm in Chrome, it's up here in my extensions, and I can come down and choose this CropBot right here, and then it opens up this dialog. And I'm going to click on this upload image, and here we can drag or drop the file. And so I'm going to go over here and grab my base image of this couple on the couch holding their lower backs. I'm going to click on it to edit. And now I need a portrait style, tall and thin, think TikTok video style or Instagram reels. And I don't have those dimensions here. And so I'm going to go ahead and do 540 by 960. I'm going to apply that. And so then I'm going to slide this over. I just want to capture this image of back pain here. And this lady, I'm going to take the lady instead of the man and just capture as much as I can. I think I like that placement. You can see the preview down here. Okay, once I have it set the way that I want, then I can come up here to the right and click this download button, and it's going to download it into my posture pillow as a zipped folder. I can open that up, pull these over here so you can see, and I will just unzip this. So extract all. And let's see here. Okay. All right. And here's my cropped image. All right. And now you can see, hopefully you can see this, the dimensions 540 by 960 here. And so now I have my image at 540 by 960. So it's in that portrait mode. All right. And so we've got our 9 by 16 and our 16 by 9. So both of those file sizes. And in the next video, I'm going to show you how to turn these into videos. This is how to crop and get your 9 by 16 image from your 16 by 9 using CropBot.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Caterpillar RD2 vid 2 grok imagine vids 2025-10-21
Video ID: iHPY8m6T_A1jf_0W

In this video, I'm going to show you how to take the static images from our ads and turn them into videos using Grok Imagine. You can access this at grok.com forward slash imagine. And I believe it is free, at least right now for all U.S. users. You can create images and videos. And so we're going to be taking our 16 by 9 image and our 9 by 16 image that we have for our static image placements. And we are going to be turning those into videos. Here in the Grok Imagine, you can get here. You'll see if you're in this Grok forward slash Imagine, there's this Imagine on the left hand bar here. Click there and we can, if I'm able to zoom in a little bit. Yeah. So you can type in a description here. We can grab our file here. So I'm going to take this couple, grab, drag and drop and boom, it's going to upload and it's going to immediately start to make that video. And you can wait for it to do that, or you can customize this and kind of tell it how you want this thing to look. And so in this case, I'm going to say, OK, so I said, have both people start to stand up. They stop in a bent over position, faces grimacing in pain as they hold their lower backs. So you can see Grok has without the description already generated this thing, but they're grabbing the cushions and whatnot. I want to focus on the lower back. I guess that's not too bad. Like they're trying to put cushions behind them for lower back support. But I don't love this video. I want them to be trying to stand up and then holding their lower back in pain. And so I'm putting this description in. I'm going to click this and now it's going to work on generating a new video with this description. All right. And now this is much better. So you can see the people start to stand up. They're holding their lower back and they end up just kind of sitting back down. So fantastic. All right. I love this highly realistic video. So Grok Imagine, the movement looks real. So I love this. I think this is a great video. And then we can simply download this video right here. Click on this and we'll just save that into our files for this product. Posture pillow. Just save that in here. All right. And so that's one video. We need to go back out here. Okay. And so just hit that back button. Then I'm going to just drop in my 9 by 16. Okay. The woman begins to stand up. She stops in a bent over position, face grimacing in pain as she holds her lower back. See Grok started to generate a video already, but I'm going to have it generate this one according to my description. Okay. And now this is a much, a much better video. See her clearly grimacing in pain with her lower back holding it. Um, so love it. This is a great, great video. Face does go out of frame there for a moment, but, um, this is good. I like this. So we can go ahead and download this video as well. And now we've got our 16 by 9 video and our 9 by 16 video using Grok Imagine. So we've taken our still static images and we've turned them into video files. And in the next video, I will show you how to take these video files and turn them into GIFs.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Caterpillar RD2 vid 3 trim vids adobe express 2025-10-21
Video ID: NNWIOPItfJchgBkn

In this video, I'm gonna show you how to do an in-between step and trim down your video files before you turn them into GIFs. Now, if you've followed along and created your Grok Imagine video clips, there's not a way to control the length of these video clips from Grok Imagine, and so they can be anywhere from six to 15 seconds long. This one is six seconds here, and my 9x16 is the same. It's six seconds in length. Awful loud video. And so these videos here are a little long. If I turn them into GIFs, the file size is going to be quite large. And so we just wanna trim these down a little bit. I did a Google search for free software to trim video. Now, my go-to would be Adobe Premiere, but that's a paid solution, and it does have a little bit of a higher learning curve on it because it is a bit more complex professional video editing software. You could also use something like Camtasia. I think Canva online would work fine. There are a ton of them. Here, one that came up is CapCut. It has both on your phone and desktop video editing, and you can see there's a whole bunch of other ones here. In the AI overview, they give us CapCut, iMovie for Mac and iOS users, Clipchamp, ShotCut, OpenShot, and so there's a lot of options here for just trimming down yours. I'm going to use this Adobe free video trimmer, and so I'm gonna open that one up. This is Adobe Express, and this is available at adobe.com/express/feature/video/trim. All right. And we are simply going to drag and drop a video. And so I'm gonna bring in my 16:9 video that we created with Grok Imagine, and it's gonna load that up here. And voila. So here it is. And then simply going to come in here and find the part of this video that I want to turn into a GIF. And I probably just want like a two-second GIF. So somewhere around here. And then there you go. We do have five megabit file size for our GIF restrictions, and so that's not too bad. We have some room there. So it's a larger GIF file that we can upload. Something right about there. That seems pretty good, I think. So if I run through this one here, camera sings, kind of goes up and then comes back down. It's 2.3 seconds. Alright, you can choose to mute this or not. I'm gonna leave the the volume on there. And so now I'm gonna go ahead and click Download this. And looks like you will need to either sign up for free to download the file. So we can simply do a sign up or a sign in. I happen to have an Adobe account, so I'm going to sign in. If you do not, you can go ahead and click the Sign Up here and go through and you can just use your email address or whatnot. And once you sign in, it'll pop up this download. Download this one and it will be a shorter of the Express. Alright. Okay, and to do a second, you can come up here to this Edit and quick video actions. You go to trim video, and that'll bring us right back here and then we can upload our next one. Come on. Alright, and then I'm gonna find the two-second part of this video. OK, so this is gonna be our 2.4-second. Yeah, that's great. OK, so let's go ahead and download that one. OK, and it pops up the dialog box and we can simply save this to our folder, and that's it. So that's how we trim these videos in the next couple of videos. I'm gonna cover how to convert these into GIFs for our placements.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Caterpillar RD2 vid 4 vids to GIF adobe express 2025-10-21
Video ID: JEM6SJcECAXGqAGk

In this video, I'm going to show you one way to take our video files and convert them into GIFs. And in the next video, I'll show you another using proprietary BTS software, Gifster. And so here, while we're in Adobe Express, you may have noticed that under here, explore more quick actions, convert to GIF. So let's click on that and see what happens. So here we have free video to GIF converter. And so now we're going to take our Adobe Express files that we just got these shorter videos that are about two second clips that mine are like 2.3, 2.4 seconds since I do have up to five megabit size. And so this one's 2.3 seconds. You can choose your file size, large, medium, or small. And I'm going to go ahead and go with the large file size since this video wasn't huge to begin with. And so I think I'll be okay. The video itself is under two megabytes, 1.88 megabytes. And so I'm going to try large first and we'll see if that file size is too big, it's over our five megabit limit, then I will go to something smaller. I'm going to just label this GIF in here. And I'm going to take a look at that file size. And it is 4.5. So we are under the limit on that. All right. And here it is. So this is good. So yeah, I think large file size is good. I don't want to go any smaller on this. So I think that's great. Let's go ahead and do another. I don't see a button to just like do another convert video to GIF. So let's try this edit. And right here under this video quick actions, we can click on that again. I guess that's that's the best way to do that. I'm going to bring my shorter 9 by 16 video in here as well. And I'm going to go ahead and do the large file size once again and go ahead and download this, save that. And I'll go ahead and open that, see what that one looks like. Yeah. And it is just over our limit, 5.39 megabytes. So that's okay. We could compress that a little bit using GIFster or something. So it's just just right in there. We could optimize that. Or I can get this medium quality one here and that should take our file size down. OK, so the small file size is small, but the dimensions of this are too small for what I want here. 258 by 466. It's under two megabytes, which is fine, but this is a little bit small. Ironically, the medium one is a larger file size at 7.9 megabytes and the large one is only 5.4. And so this 5.4, we could either trim down our 2.4 second GIF and make it smaller, or we could go compress it a little bit and make it smaller somewhere. So let's I'm going to stick with this 5.4 megabyte one and just compress it down a little bit in order to make it just under our five megabyte limit that we have for those GIFs.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Caterpillar RD2 vid 5 reduce GIF GIFSTER 2025-10-21
Video ID: krMmvVXE4BzOmxEF

In this video, I'm going to show you how to use Gifster to reduce the file size on a GIF. In the last video, we created a GIF out of a video using Adobe Express. You can also do that same thing using Gifster, and I'll show you that in the next video. But for now, we're just going to take our file, and this was our 9x16 GIF that ended up being just over our 5 megabyte limit for the GIFs, and so we're going to reduce that file size. One of the best ways to do that is with the frames, and so I'm going to click on Edit Frames, choose this file, and I'm going to go ahead and select this one. And you can see the duration is 2.4 seconds, and reducing frames means that the frames will still have the same quality, but there'll be fewer of them. And so I'm going to go ahead and skip every other frame. Now, this is going to get choppy because if I take out every frame, it's going to cut this down. And so what I want to do is extend the length of each of the live frames to make up for the ones that we have skipped. And so I'm taking that delay in milliseconds from 80 to 160, and I'm going to go through here and update every single one of those. And now I'm going to generate that GIF. And now here you can see it says click on the GIF to download, so we can click on that, and voila, it will download. And I'm going to say Gifster. Okay, and you can see this one. Okay, see? Now it looks normal. We've just reduced some of the frames. It looks like a good GIF. It has good image quality, and it is down to 2.7 megabytes. So well within our 5 megabyte file size limit. And so now we have two GIFs that we can use for our placements. That's how you reduce the file size by taking out some of the frames on the GIF. In the next video, I will show you how to convert your video files into GIFs directly using Gifster.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Caterpillar RD2 vid 6 vids to GIF GIFSTER 2025-10-21
Video ID: uuPzhmlQQk4t7pki

In this video, I'm going to show you how to take your videos and turn them into GIFs using Gifster. This is a proprietary BTS software, so in your BTS resources, here you can choose Gifster from these tabs and then click on this link to launch the Gifster app. If you come down on the left, you'll find this upload files and that's where we're gonna go and then we can select our file. And I'm going to do the Adobe Express here. Let's start with the 16 by 9 and upload that one. And once the upload is complete, then we can go into assets here. Be able to find this. All right, and then we can click in here and edit. So this is our little 2.4 second video. And it may take just a moment. Yeah, it's processing this image. Take a moment. There it is. Okay, so it shows up and we don't need to mess with the layers of the effects, the animations. There's a whole lot that could be done here in Gifster, but we don't need to do anything else with this. If you want to add an effect or something to this, go for it. But I'm just going to leave it as a plain GIF like this. And I simply want to come down here and click on the export button and boom. All right, and now it's in our exports. And this editor opened up in another tab. You may or may not have noticed that. So back over here, I can go to my exports on the left-hand side here. Got some different files in here. And this one is processing right here. So you'll see that. We'll just wait until that shows up. In the meantime, we could go ahead and do our other file as well. So let's go ahead and do the 9 by 16 video here. This is the trimmed one that came out of Adobe Express once again. Okay, it says some files failed to upload. So maybe that one didn't. Let's try again. Select a file. All right, and upload. Complete. Okay, let's go look at my assets and see if that one is in there. Okay, it is. So it's in here. So that's good. So I can go ahead and click edit here. Give it a moment to load. Okay, and once it loads and comes up down here in the right, let's go ahead and export this. And that one's in export. All right, it is in progress. Let's go back over here and go to my exports. And now hopefully of one of these done. Yes. So this one is done. And now I can go ahead and download this one and go ahead and open that. We'll just take a peek at it. Okay, and so here's the GIF converted by Gifster and it is 2.9 megabytes. You can see it looks a little grainy in here. And so the one that came out of Adobe Express was a little higher quality visual, but still a decent GIF. You can see what's going on. You can see the pained expressions on their face. And the other one has come up here as well. So we can go ahead and download that file as well. And we can take a peek at that one. Okay, and that one's also been converted. It's at 3.2 megabytes. Again, a little more grainy than the ones that came out of Adobe Express, but decent GIFs. And so that will definitely work. All right, so that is how you convert your video files to GIFs using Gifster. And in the next set of videos, then we will go into setting up our round two campaign using these six placements that we've now created.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Caterpillar RD2 vid 7 launch rd 2 ads 2025-10-21
Video ID: 6rknxcdHkCSdhMpD

In this video, we're going to set up our round two Caterpillar test with our different placements. So once our round one has come up with a winning headline, and in this case, we're going with headline number nine here, attention state side sleepers, this reset pillow eliminates morning back pain. We've created the GIFs and the videos for our round two, and so now we're going to test placements with this winning headline. And so I can't change from an image ad to a video ad. I can't change the type, so I'm not going to be able to clone for all of these, but I will be able to copy the ad to do the first image one, and so I can do this one as my 16 my 9 by 16, switch it to my 9 by 16 here, and I already have the names and everything on a sheet over here, so this is going to be ad number 11, of course, and it is instead of the 16 by 9, a 9 by 16, and I'm going to go ahead and remove that image, and I'm going to choose a different image here. And here's my round two files, and so I want this one. I'm going to lower back right there. Open. Boom. So that's our save. There's number 11. Okay, and save successfully. Go up here. There's only 10 showing the 25. Then you can see here's number 11, and so it's in here, 9 by 16. And then the GIFs, I should also be able to duplicate and just change out that file size, so I'm going to do that again, and that gives me another one right here. It keeps going, so I can either go to number two or I can keep changing the display there, but here's my copy one right here, so I'm going to go ahead and edit that, and this is going to be my 16 by 9 GIF, because a GIF is still the image. Okay, so if you run into this type of an error, not a big deal. We can just cancel this. We can delete this one. Go ahead and delete that one. And then let's try. I'm going to come in here and try to duplicate this one, and we'll see if that worked any better. Okay, remove that image. Yep, okay. So this one's letting me do it, and so I'm not sure exactly what the issue was there. Apparently a little bit finicky sometimes with removing the image and replacing it. So now I've got my number 12. This is a GIF, 16 by 9. I've got it in there now. All right, so let's go ahead and save that one. Ad is saved successfully. Okay, great. So that one's in. Now let's try cloning that one again, and we'll do our 9 by 16. Okay, so this is the one. Edit this. Just try to remove that image. That worked just fine. And so now we need our 9 by 16. Name it appropriately. Okay, save. Okay, and now we are going to need to create new ads for these next ones because we can't change the type. And so apostrophe pillow and this name here. I'm going to need to create a new one to do a video ad because once you change this and lock it in and create it, you can't clone and then change that type. So I'm going to do this video ad and we're going to grab our headline here and get our description right there. Okay, make sure I don't have any extra characters on the end of those. Button text is the learn more. Brand name. All right. Do the same logo file as before. All right, and then we can save this one. Oops. Ah, of course, video is required, so we have to actually upload the video file. How could I forget? So let's go in here and get my video file. This is my 16 by 9. I'll upload that one. All right, and now we've got that in there and we can save. Okay, and then since that one is a video type, uh, let's look like it already flipped on. Okay, uh, but that's okay. The campaign, we have the campaign off while we're making these edits. And so even though the ad is flipped on, the campaign is off. Let's try cloning this and see if we can replace it. All right, here's my copy. Edit. Let's see if I can remove that video file. That worked okay. We have up to 20 megabyte size on these videos, so they can be quite large. Okay, nice. And there's my 9 by 16. Let's make sure that I get my name of my ad updated properly to number 15. Okay, good. Save that. Okay, and now we've got our six placements. So our original 16 by 9 image with that headline, then I'm going to extend this to 25 so we can see the others. Number 10 is one of our static images from the last test that we turned off. And then I want to turn on the other five that we've created. So the 9 by 16 image placement for number 11, the GIF at 16 by 9 for 12, at 9 by 16 in a GIF for number 13. For number 14 here, which is already on the first video and a 16 by 9 and for number 15, the GIF or the video, excuse me, in a 9 by 16. So these are our six placements. The headlines and descriptions are the same and we are simply testing the placement static images versus GIFs versus videos. And we're going to see what placement, if it's a 16 by 9 or a 9 by 16, converts the best. And so this is the test. Once we are ready, you may want to come back out to the sub campaigns. And if you want to adjust this budget now, we are going to run this out to like a two times a CPA payout on these. And so these are a $60 payout, I believe, on this product. And so each of these we're going to run out to $120 for all six of these placements. And so if you want to up that budget, we could up that budget and go to 500 and go ahead and save this. And then, of course, now we want to come back out into the basic info and we can go ahead and flip our campaign back on and make sure that you save it or that won't take. Okay, so for this one, again, you can calculate out your two times CPA. If you've got a $60 CPA, two times that for each ad is $120 for each ad. $120 times six is $720. So I'm going to run this test out to at least another $720. I will watch and the placements that are underperforming, we will flip those off early before they hit that two times CPA on that specific ad, most likely. So if somebody's flagging, the cost per landing page click is too high or the landing page click through rate overall is too low. But mostly I'm going to be looking at that landing page click cost. So the cost per click on the landing page clicks, and that's going to be my main determining factor because I want those to be lower. Of course, conversions would be the major driver. And so if somebody's pulling way ahead in terms of conversions, then we will skew there. But cost to get people to click through the landing page and go to the offer will be the largest metric that is furthest down the funnel. We'll have the most data right there to make that determination on. So that's what we will mostly be looking at as we monitor this round two data and make adjustments.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Native Ads vid 1 Headlines w Claude 2025-10-20
Video ID: kGngLSKBOavGIsQs

Okay, in this video, I'm going to be showing you how to use Claude to get some headlines and descriptions with the 90 character limit max that include the dynamic content macros within the Caterpillar advertising platform. And I've pulled this directly from the written material in the blitz. Use Claude to help you incorporate the optional dynamic content macros into your headlines and descriptions. Here they are. The viewer's state, viewer's city, current year, current month, current day of the week, today's date and operating system. So all of this relates to the person looking at the ad, right? So the viewer, whoever is looking at the ad, it's going to show their state, their city, the current year that they are looking at the ad in, the current month that they are viewing the ad in, the current day of the week that they're looking at the ad. So if it's Wednesday, your ad will say Wednesday, where you have that day of the week. Today's date, that will be the actual date, like October 20th, 2025. And the operating system will be what they're on, a Mac, a PC, desktop. That's probably less likely to be important for us, the operating system, but if someone were selling software, antivirus, or something that is related to a mobile device or a PC, potentially an app or something like that, that might come into play. We probably won't use that one as much, but we can have Claude help us. And I've got my list of headlines here. You can get these headline ideas from affiliate CMO, freeadcopy.com. You know, you could use Claude with some special prompts or ChatGPT with some prompting, though I do find more difficult to get good copy out of ChatGPT. You need very, very specific prompting to get decent stuff out of ChatGPT. But wherever, or you write them yourself, you're a good copywriter, and so get some headline ideas together for this. And so I've got some together already. If you don't have them, you could do this without having headline ideas together and simply give Claude the source materials. But in this case, I've got my headline ideas that I like already, and I simply want to know if there are good places where we could incorporate some of these macros, and Claude's going to help me with that. I've already put in one, you know, city. So Portland, Detroit, Chicago, this hit reset pillow eliminates morning back pain while you sleep. You know, so I can call out their city name and that can grab their attention because it's, hey, it's their city. So that's one place where I saw to incorporate that. But it'll be good to have Claude help with this. Now, the other things that I've got open here, I've got my product page, the offer link here. This is the offer page for this and then the advertorial for this as well. And so I've got these open as well. So I'm going to tell Claude what I am doing here. I need 10 native ad headlines and one description that each have a maximum character limit of 90 characters. I also have some dynamic macros that we can use within our headlines and the description. The 90 character count includes the use of the macro token within the headline or the description. I can give you the advertorial that these native ads will lead to as well as the Shopify e-com product page for this offer. Please take a look at those and then I will provide the headlines that I like and the macros for us to use. Do you understand and are you ready to begin? All right, we'll shoot that off and Claude will probably say, yeah, I got it. 10 native ad headlines, max 90 characters each, including macro tokens, one description, max 90 characters, including macro tokens. Perfect. This will promote an advertorial that leads to a Shopify product page. Character count must include the macro tokens themselves. Ready to review the advertorial Shopify and prefer. OK, so I'm going to go ahead and see if it can just visit the links. So I'm going to do that. Just grab these URLs. I'm just going to paste those in. And now Claude has reviewed both pages because he is about posture pillow. Perfect. Orthopedic knee pillow provides spinal alignment for side sleepers to relieve hip, knee, back pain. Great. OK, so organ therapist developed, search in, works the first night, relieves morning stiffness, memory foam with hourglass, tension. OK, 30 day. OK. Your preferred headline examples. Nice. The dynamic macros. All right. Nice. So Claude is ready to go and I will give Claude my headline examples. Just grab all this and then I'm going to delete some of it from my message here. OK. All right. And Claude is giving me headlines with the 90 characters max and is giving me the character count on the back end with the macro city. This hip reset pillow eliminates morning back pain while you sleep. Great. So it took my Oregon PT's hip reset pillow eliminates morning back pain while you sleep and put in the city there. So that was one thing that it did. Attention state. So attention Ohio side sleepers. Attention Nevada side sleepers. Attention Florida side sleepers. Oregon PT's pillow ends morning stiffness fast. OK, nice. Calls up the city seniors. Oregon therapist pillow trick eliminates hip pain overnight. Why your expensive mattress can't fix with this. 2025 pillow discovery can. All right. A way to slide in the year. Oregon PT's weird pillow placement eliminates chronic pain in one night. 73 characters with no macro. All right. State therapists sleep correction method ends morning back pain fast. Breakthrough memory foam pillow realigns your spine while you sleep with the year 2025. Shocking reason your back pain gets worse after good sleep in 2025. Day of the week. So Wednesday discovery, Tuesday discovery, Sunday discovery. Oregon PT's hip pillow eliminates pain first night. All right. Chicago doctors stunned. Champaign doctors stunned. Orlando doctors stunned. $36 pillow outperforms expensive mattresses. All right. 69 characters. All right. And a description here. Oregon therapist spinal aligning pillow stops morning pain instantly. Try risk free. No macros. OK, so I'm just going to ask for it to give me some variation on the macros here. Please give me another 25 headline variations and give me 10 description variations. Be sure to include some macro options in the description as well. OK, and now I'm just going to have Claude analyze its own work and tell me which ones it thinks are most likely to perform. I may have my own opinions on that as well, but I'll have it give me its analysis and then you can decide. But you can see general idea of how to get headlines and descriptions that work in these macros within the 90 character limit. So let me see here. What am I going to tell Claude? OK, great. Now give me the top 10 rank ordered headlines in order of likeliness to convert to a purchase. Then give me your recommendation for the description that is most likely to convert and work with those top 10 ranking headlines. Think carefully about your answer as if you are a world class direct response copywriter and marketer with 30 years of experience. OK, send that off. It does a pretty good job in my opinion of this. But once again, use your own judgment. Read through them carefully. That type of thing. And I did seed it with some good ad headline ideas already. This is what it came up with. So for the first one, using the city macro. So whatever city you might be in. Las Vegas, this hip reset pillow eliminates morning back pain while you sleep. All right. Attention state. So attention Wisconsin side sleepers. Oregon PT's pillow ends morning stiffness fast. Tells why it wins. Identifies the exact app to our side sleepers. Nice. Credibility. The Oregon PT and speed promise. It's fast. Attention creates a pattern interrupt. Addresses a specific pain point this audience experiences. All right. State side sleepers over 50 again. So you can see we've got a bunch of fantastic headlines here. It chose the top 10 and gave us rationale. Again, double check its work. Make sure it makes sense. Make sure that there are headlines that you feel are strong and are comfortable running. And then it gives a recommended description. City. So Las Vegas therapist pillow realigns spine overnight or Orlando therapist pillow realigns spine overnight. Wake up pain free. Try it now. All right. So I like that. Geographic continuity creates seamless flow from headline to description. Reinforcing local relevance and trust. Authority transfer. So the therapist immediately establishes medical credibility. Clear mechanism. Time to specific benefit. Emotional payoff. Friction removing CTA. Try it now. And brevity equals clarity. So every word earns its place. No fluff. Direct response. Gold. I do like this description quite a bit. Wake up pain free. Big promise. And try it now. Clean, simple CTA. So love it. So it made some fantastic recommendations. And so now we will compile a finalized set of 10 headlines to run. But this shows you how to easily use Claude to help you come up with some winning headline and description combinations and incorporate those dynamic macros into your Caterpillar native ads.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Native Ads vid 2 Images w Midjourney 2025-10-20
Video ID: zbTbu2IE0vZPgqpH

In this video, I'm going to show you how to generate images for your ad campaigns using AI image generators. In this case, we're going to use an AI image generator called MidJourney, and this is accessed through Discord. And I've got the MidJourney bot set up in a Discord channel. There's also the main Discord channel and several different servers within there that you can prompt directly within. So I've got a custom one set up just for me, but you don't have to do that. You can easily Google, look up on YouTube how to get on MidJourney and how to use MidJourney on Discord. And there are a lot of videos out there showing you how to do that. So I'm not going to go through how to set up or access MidJourney. Find that on YouTube. This will just focus on creating the photo. You can see this photo of these two elderly people sitting on a couch holding their backs. And you can see it's a pretty simple prompt. A photo of a 65-year-old couple in mid-motion rising from a couch, both with knees bent and posture strained, each gripping their lower back with one hand, wincing in synchronized pain. The AR, this is the aspect ratio is 8 to 5. I was doing this for a hero shot, so 800 pixels by 500 pixels. If we need it in a 16 by 9 ratio, like for our native ads, then I could put 16 to 9 in that ratio there. You can see that's very simple. I did try using ChatGPT and some prompting to get some prompts for MidJourney. That used to work well, but MidJourney is becoming more user-friendly. And so simple prompts, basically just describing what you want the image to look like, I'm finding are working better. It used to have a lot of variables, a lot of different things, but this latest version of MidJourney seems to like simple text descriptions. Here I can show you, I used this MidJourney version 7.0 photorealistic prompt generator. It was still built on the 4.0 model and I can't switch that out in here because it is a GPT, one of the little bots built into ChatGPT that somebody set up for the version 7. And I asked for these prompts, elderly couple standing side-by-side, rising from a modern beige couch, both with one hand on their lower backs, grimacing in visible discomfort. And that didn't really work for me, so I said I need them in mid-motion rising, one hand gripping the lower back in discomfort, knees bent, posture strained, wincing in pain. And so it gave me this. And again, you can see like there's part of it that I've kind of used in my prompt, but I've really simplified it and we didn't need all the DSLR photography, Canon EOS OD. They used to make a big difference in getting like photorealistic type things, but this prompting is no longer really necessary. You can ask ChatGPT for a current MidJourney version prompt, but plain language is working really well on MidJourney right now. So just describe the image that you want. Okay, so here we are back in MidJourney and I'll show you, you know, I used some of those earlier prompts here. Realistic, photorealistic. This is stuff coming out of ChatGPT and it just looks, these look funky. You can click on these to expand and it just looks weird. This elderly couple sitting side by side, rising from a modern beige couch. That's that prompt that we got from ChatGPT. Some of these are kind of, eh, but not, it's not conveying the idea that I want here. Here's another one. These look pretty, man, the back, their walls are just covered in all these. These people are standing in the middle of their couch. So, you know, sometimes you get some funky stuff out of this. And this was closer, you know, so I simplified it down. 65-year-old couple, mid-motion rising from a couch, both with knees bent, posture strained, each gripping their lower back. So, this dude's kind of toothless. Seems unfortunate. These people, man, the expressions on their faces and whatnot, and it just looks funky. It not, it doesn't look very real. And that's weird. She kind of looks happy about it, whatever's happening. But this one kind of looks usable here in the third one. And so what I did was I upscaled number three, and then I also asked for variations on number three. So I clicked upscale and variations on number three. Upscale makes that single image larger. So it's the grid one, two, three, four. And you have some options here to upscale, make them larger, or to do variations on them. You can also do kind of custom variation on this and re-roll it and tell it what you want. So this upscaling, so this image worked well enough. The variations on there weren't getting any better at this point. Some of them are okay, but in the end, so these are some funny looking ones here and here. I decided to go with this couple right here. That prompt seemed to work pretty well. I'll show you how to get this. It's copy this in the message here. We type forward slash, imagine. All right, I'm gonna click on that. And then we can put in the prompt. And again, I want this for my native ads, so I'm gonna go 16 to 9. You could go 9 by 16, the 8 to 5, whatever aspect ratio you need it in, 4 to 3, 5 to 4. And put that in there. There is a free account on MidJourney, I do believe, that you can generate so many images with. You can pay $10 or $20 a month, I think it is, to have so many fast hours. And it'll allow you to do the custom channel and to prompt faster or get your results faster out of this. Let's see these images coming. All right, so sometimes you just need to try again. This one looks somewhat believable. Bottom three, number three, doesn't look too bad. The rest of them, not great. I can do this to just re-roll, and you can either do changes or not. Okay, we've got some images here that we can look at. These people are grimacing. These people are holding their backs. So this might be closest. Okay, so sometimes you have to play with it a little bit and play with the prompting. You can put it in your specific requests and just continue tweaking and refining until you get an image that you like and that will work. But this is one way to get images for this. There are a lot of AI image generators out there, and you can use any one that appeals to you. This will keep us clear of copyright violations or using somebody's face or likeness that we should not. And makes it much cleaner and simpler for our advertising purposes. I'm going to be moving forward with this image of this couple holding lower backs on the couch and use that in my advertising campaign.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Traffic vid 1 Caterpillar Basic Info 2025-10-20
Video ID: VWrN5C_roA2rBgww

In this video, we're going to create a new campaign and edit the basic info in your campaigns from the left on the menu here. You can now go to the far right and find the add button and click on that to create a new campaign. In the campaign name here, you'll want to name this something so that you can find it. I'm going to be doing this for a product called posture pillow. So I will put posture pillow and then I like to put the traffic source that I'm using in this case, it'll be Caterpillar. And then I might put in test one. It doesn't matter too much. Now in this URL append token for Caterpillar, we'll be okay with quite a bit of this, but I'm going to get rid of any dashes and just keep a single underscore between. That's very important for ClickBank that you only have underscores. We're not promoting ClickBank in this case, but for ClickBank, it is. It's just a good idea to have this convention for URL append token only to have underscores in it. All right. And so mine is going to be the posture pillow Caterpillar test one. And then the offer promotion down here, other, this is going to be eCommerce. If you're promoting ClickBank, you want to choose other. In this case, we're promoting a media maven, so it's an eCommerce product and the traffic source here, I'm going to choose this as Caterpillar and the affiliate network is of course media mavens. And then I am going to go down here and select the macro template and make sure that that matches the traffic source that I'm using. In this case, Caterpillar. So I want the Caterpillar macro templates and now we're going to click save and it should automatically apply the macro tokens down here. So in this case, we have these three macros for the Caterpillar traffic source applied and it has already been successfully saved with those settings. So the only things that you need to edit are the campaign name. This is for your reference. Name it something that you will know what it means and are able to locate it easily within the list of your campaign names. URL append token, just to be safe, make sure it has only underscores, no spaces or dashes or other punctuation within. Choose the offer promotion correctly. If you are promoting a media mavens eCommerce product, choose that. If you are promoting ClickBank, choose other affiliate network, choose the appropriate one, choose your appropriate traffic source, then make sure that the macros matches your traffic source. Apply those tokens or save it with those tokens and it should be applied to your campaign. Once you have those done, you have the basic info set up for your campaign and you are ready to proceed and we will do that in the next video.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Traffic vid 2 Caterpillar Traffic Source 2025-10-20
Video ID: kwBxWLiffF5SRGix

In this video, we're going to configure the traffic source settings for our Caterpillar campaign. And so once you have the basic info set up and saved appropriately with the correct macros saved, you're going to come over to the traffic source tab here and click on that. Here you'll see product. And if you have products in your dropdown, you can select the product. If you do not have any products or you do not have this product in your dropdown, you can simply toggle this to select and then you can type in the product. In this case, I'm doing posture pillow and so I'm going to type that in and I'm going to save that. Once that has been saved, it should have your selected product or your product that you have typed in here. It can't be updated after saving and so that will be the product that is in there. I don't see the text appearing here, but it should have saved correctly. We will now go over to the sub campaign tab, click here, and you're going to create a new sub campaign. Now, it's important to keep in mind that in order to preserve the progress that we've made with our rounds of testing and our campaign and the algorithm, we want to keep everything within this one campaign and within the sub campaign as we go through the different rounds of testing, round one, round two, round three, and beyond. We want to simply turn off and add new ads in, new landing pages, new offer pages possibly, but keep them all within this one sub campaign. So keep that in mind that we're going to keep as much as possible within this one sub campaign for our at least initial rounds of testing until we get this thing up and working. So we need to go through and fill out the information in the sub campaign info here. So for this name, I'm going to use basically the same thing, posture pillow. I'm just going to call it test one. And then my optimization event here, always on your first one should be complete payment. There may be a time later where we will use some of these other optimization events, but for now on your first campaign and for most of your campaigns, it will be complete payment. Choose that. Now your start time here, we can set this start time. The recommendation is to start it at 6 a.m. the next day. Don't start in the middle of the day or the end of the day. If it's still early in the day, morning, then you could start it the same day. But the optimization windows, you really want to be able to hit the morning and the evening in a day. And so if it's afternoon, do not start it same day. So set this in the future. If you're going to have the entire campaign configured today, then you can go ahead and set it to start tomorrow at 6 and I want my zeros here a.m. All right, so I'm just going to set it for tomorrow at 6 a.m. Now, if you're not sure that you can get your whole campaign configured by then or you're not ready to start, then you may want to choose another day later out, or you could choose tomorrow and then you could simply toggle your campaign off if you don't have things ready. So don't panic. And once you flip the switch back on in your basic info tab, the campaign will go live if it is past this start time. So don't panic if you don't have your campaign ready to go, but I recommend that you start it at 6 a.m. either tomorrow if you're going to get your campaign fully set up today, or at some date in the future and have your campaign either fully ready to go by then or go back into your basic info and toggle your campaign off so that it does not go live. The end time, now we're going to be managing this manually, and so you don't want this to turn off anytime soon. So I usually go in here and I go out a couple of years, right? So I just go out to like October 2027, and that way it's two years out and that'll be fine. The more time options, leave this alone. We don't need to mess with that right now. Your daily budget. Now for the initial testing, we're going to be spending about $500 on headlines. And then for each round of testing, you're going to be spending about two times your commission payout per ad. So if you have 10 ads that you run in a set and you're promoting a product that pays out at $50 in commission per sale, then two times your $50 is $100 times your 10 ads is $1,000. So you might be spending $1,000 in a round of testing. First round of testing is $500 and then later rounds will typically be more than that, closer to that $1,000 plus range. And so put in a daily budget that you're comfortable with. If you're comfortable with $500 in a day and closely monitoring it and turning it off, you can do that. If you'd like it to spend a little bit more slowly and spread out the traffic over a couple of days, then you could put in something like $250. So it's up to you. I probably wouldn't put in less than $200. So if you wanted to run it over kind of part of three days-ish for your initial headline testing, but some of your other tests are just going to stretch out a little too long. So if you wanted to start about $250 a day for your first headline testing, that gives you time to go in and catch it and flip it off after $500 in spend. That's fine. You can come back and adjust this later. Bid type, max conversion or target CPA. Always keep this on max conversion. When starting out, leave the frequency cap and all of the other targeting things alone for now. We want to leave those as all and leave them exactly as they are. And now we want to go ahead and click save once you have the name of your sub campaign info in here, the optimization event set to complete payment, your start time either set for tomorrow at 6 a.m. or some day in the future at 6 a.m. when you will have the campaign completely configured and ready to go. End time far into the future. I usually just go out a couple of years. We're going to be monitoring and managing this manually, so you don't want the campaign to turn off and you not to be able to run your later rounds of testing within this. So far, far off into the future. A couple of years is good. A budget that you are comfortable with. Somewhere around $500 a day would be great. If you want to run these early headline tests over a few days and stretch it out a little bit and you want a lower budget so that you can catch it in time to turn it off at about $500 in spend, then you could start with $250 a day. I wouldn't go below $200 a day probably, but it is up to you and your comfort level. And there is no minimum on this traffic source, and so you can set that budget to what you are comfortable spending in a day. Spending less money just means that it takes more time for us to get the results in and move forward through the stages. So there's not really a huge advantage to spending less per day other than you have more time to catch it and flip the campaign off while preparing for your next round of testing. And so if you're at $500 a day and you miss it for a day, you could overspend by $500 in that time. So that's the only real consideration on the budget amount there. Once we have everything configured, it is set to max conversions and everything else has been left alone, frequency cap blank and all the other targeting set to all. Go ahead and click save. And you'll notice that this sub-campaign is toggled on already. Once again, if your start date, you are not going to have things ready to go yet, you may want to toggle it off, but we will want to make sure it is on and ready to go when we are ready to test. Now notice it says it's on, but our start date is still in the future as of today. It is set for tomorrow's date at 6 a.m. And so it's not running, even though it says it is on because we have not reached the start date yet. Now, if we pass that start date and everything is toggled on, it will begin. So we want to make sure that we manage our start date and our toggles for the campaign being on. This is the sub-campaign. You also have a toggle for the campaign being on and that is your master on off switch for the whole campaign in the basic info tab as well. Now in the next video, we are going to go ahead and set up our ads and we will do that by clicking on this ads tab and then creating our first ad. We'll do that in the next video.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Traffic vid 3 Caterpillar First Ad 2025-10-20
Video ID: 3lY7zNbR7seJZDYd

In this video, we're going to be creating our first native ad in our caterpillar campaign. And so once you have your sub campaign set up and ready to go, we can click on the ads tab here. And under the sub campaign ads, if you are doing your first one, you'll see create new, go ahead and click that button. And now we're going to fill out our information for this ad. Now I like to have everything handy here off to the side. And so you won't see us all this on the screen, but I have a text document, just a plain text document, and it's got my offer page and the advertorial. And then it's got my headlines and the ad names that I'm going to be using my descriptions and all this over here. So I'm working off this, you'll just see me copy and paste that into there. In addition, I've got my image over here. This is the image that I'm going to be using my 16 by 9 image for the ad. And of course I have my folder with all of my elements over here off to the side as well, so that I can pull those into this campaign quickly and easily. So I recommend having together assets like that. Okay, so the first thing that we need to configure is selecting our sub campaign. We've only set up one, but you want to select the correct sub campaign under here and then enter your ad name. Now I like to number these and then also name them by what I'm testing. So in this case, my ad is 0001 and headlines are what we're mostly testing. So I'm putting that first and the image is going to be this couple on couch holding their lower back and it's in a 16 by 9. So I've got the image labeled and then I've got my headline labeled and you can see that I've got this set up ahead of time, but this is going to be beginning of my headline here. City this hip reset pillow. And so that's one of my headlines that we got there. That's going to be my first one. So I'm going to go ahead and put this headline in there. You'll see that headline. So city this hip reset pillow just helps me know what headline I was testing on this ad. And this is going to be, of course, a image ad since we're doing a 16 by 9 still image and you select image ads and you'll see some of these other fields change a little bit. The dynamic content just below this headline, you can see you have pull downs for state, city, year, month. We already did that in a previous video when we compiled our headlines and got our image much earlier for our ads. And you can see that the city is pulled in here already. So we're already using that. If you were to choose another one of these, you'd see it would just throw it on the end here, this state tag right there. We don't need that. We've already got it built in. My headlines are ready to go. So this is my headline. I'm going to go ahead and choose my image file here by clicking here and selecting the image that I want to use from my computer. And I'm using this 16 by 9 couple on the couch holding their backs. All right. And yeah, we get a preview so you can see a couple holding their backs. The description referencing my text document here. And I really like this one that Claude helped me put together. So we're going to use that one. Once again, we've already got the dynamic city stuff inserted here. You could use this to insert more things, but we're already set. I've done that ahead of time and so I don't need to do that. Button text. This is almost always just going to be learn more. That's going to be the default. So use learn more. It always works well for now. For the brand name, just put in the product name. So I'm doing posture pillow. So I'm going to put that in as the brand name. And then we need the logo file as well. This is just a little square image. It's a maximum of 5 megabits and it's recommended to 40 by 40 pixels. But you just need some sort of square one. In this case, I'm using basically what's the fav icon. So posture pillow PP just a little square fav icon logo in place of the logo. And that will work fine. You can get these in the product cards. The media mavens listing product cards in the portal is where you can download the logos for the product. Okay, I figured I better show this to you. So under resources, affiliate networks, go to media mavens, log into MediaMaven, scroll down and in these product cards, then you will see Vista Veil right here. Download the official logo. So that's where you can get those logos to run in your campaigns. Back to our DIY tracks campaign. Now that we've got everything saved in here, our sub campaign has been selected. We've got an ad name so that we will know what ad this is. It's selected as an image ad. We've got our headline in. We've got our image uploaded successfully. We've got the description in. We have our button text selected. The brand name is in as the product name and we have uploaded our logo. We can go ahead and click save. And we have successfully saved our first ad. Click OK in this notification or just leave it alone. That will be fine. So this is creating our first ad to run in the caterpillar traffic source with the 16 by 9 image. In the next video, I'll show you how to create your additional ads for this first sub campaign and this first round of testing for headlines.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Traffic vid 4 Caterpillar More Ads 2025-10-20
Video ID: LZaWLumMbYgJeb0Y

In this video, we're going to be creating additional ads in our sub-campaign. And since for this first round of testing, we are simply focusing on testing the headlines, we're going to use the same exact image and the same description. And, of course, the logo will be the same for all of these. We're simply going to create these ads by duplicating the first ad. And so I'm just going to go ahead and click on the Copy Ad. And it's going to ask, are you sure you want to copy this? And I'm going to say, yes, I do want to copy that. And then we can come in here and edit this copy of the ad. So notice at the end of this ad name, it's going to say copy. And now I am simply going to put in my number two ad name. And remember, I have these ready to go, but ad number two headline is going to be this. And so I'm going to grab that headline and replace that headline. And notice that everything else should stay the same. It's only the headline that is changing. So I'm going to go ahead and click Save on that. And then I'm going to go ahead and duplicate the first one again to make number three. So I'm going to go ahead and click on this copy and say yes. And then I'm going to come down to this one, which is a copy of number one here. And once again, I'm going to put in my ad name. I'm going to put in my headline. And because everything else is staying the same, I will save that one. All right. And then I'm going to go ahead and do this again a few more times, but you don't have to watch me. I'll come back after I finish the set of 10. Okay. And I have just entered the 10th ad name and headline. I'm coming down. I'm going to save this. And now you can see we have our full list of one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, and 10. All right. And all of these headlines here are different and unique. It is using the same ad. So we've got all 10. These other ones are off. And so I'm going to go ahead and toggle them all on here. Toggle all of these on and done. Okay. So toggle all 10. And now we have our 10 ads with our 10 different headlines, same description, same image, same logo. All the other setup is the same. The learn more on the button, but 10 different headlines that we're going to be running in this test. All ads are on and ready to go. And that finishes our ad setup for this first caterpillar campaign. And we need to move forward with setting up our landing pages and offer pages. And I'll do that in the next set of videos.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Traffic vid 5 Caterpillar Landing Pages 2025-10-20
Video ID: XNSADlU_X2LImwbV

In this video, we're going to be adding landing pages to our campaign if you haven't done that yet already. So once done with the ads and this traffic source tab, we're going to come over to the landing pages tab. And I will not go through all the particulars in this video, but there is a video on MetricMover using MetricMover split test. So if you're doing that, then there are instructions there explicitly on how to get the files and everything and what to upload landing pages. You can follow that if you are using individual flexi landing pages as your variants, you'll put in the individual URLs. And once again, there's another set of videos for that. So under the landing pages in the blitz and this video, just for setting up our first campaign, I've of course got a MetricMover file and in there, there's the tracks import for the MetricMover and we're going to click upload CSV. I'm going to choose this file and it's going to open up my posture pillow. I have already extracted that, my MetricMover project into this one. Here's my tracks import. I'm going to click open and then I am going to upload that. And voila, it should upload all of my landing pages in here showing 10 of 25. Let me show all 25 of them. Boom. Okay, so there are my landing pages. We can test these control A and control C. Close that out over here. Paste that in and take a peek. Boom. Okay, so I've got a landing page in here and you of course should check your different variants on your headlines and your heroes to make sure everything is appearing properly. But my landing page is looking good. You should also double check your links. Make sure that it is in the bottom left hand corner, your T2 link showing up. Once again, there are videos specific to your DIY tracks and landing page setup that will cover all of that. However, I'm just going over it briefly. So I'm checking my landing page here to make sure that that is working. They are good. Make sure that the share percentage makes sense. I've got 25 over a hundred percent. That makes 4%. So that's good. If the percentage looks funky, you can click this set equal share and it should divide the share percentage evenly across the full set of active pages. And since this is the first set of 25 pages that we have in here, that's what we've got. And so these are all set to active. They've all got the correct percentage share. And when I check the URLs in a browser tab, they are working and the link is appearing properly. So I've now added my landing pages to my campaign. And in the next video, we will add our offer page URL with our affiliate link. And I've already showed you in one of the first videos, how to get your affiliate link, whether it's for a media mens product or a ClickBank product, that'll be specific to your affiliate network and what you are promoting. You'll have that affiliate link that you'll put in your offer pages. And so we'll cover that in the next video.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Traffic vid 6 Caterpillar Offer Page Link 2025-10-20
Video ID: 1lik1clDM551O3IN

In this video, we're going to be adding in our affiliate link in the offer pages tab. So go ahead and click to navigate to the offer pages if you don't have that in here already. We're going to be adding that. Now I have it saved in my document over off to the side here, so I'm just going to copy. I'm going to click add and I'm going to paste this URL in here. Notice it is the URL for the product page. It's a Shopify page. And then at the end, it has this little question mark and then the ref code. It's your affiliate ref code. And I'm just going to say here pillow relief. And that's because there are a couple different pages that I'm testing for posture pillows. So I'm going to name it that in this one, I'm using all the same one, but I do have a couple of different ones. You will likely only have one, but you may have additional as we release more angles on these product pages. Just name it so that you know what your offer page is. And since this is the only one I'm running to a hundred percent and on and click add. Now this should be the same URL as what you find here on the product page. So you can see at the end products forward slash relief. And you can see that that that matches products forward slash relief. And then the ref code, the reference code you can get from your media mavens account or from these offer cards here in media mavens in the TC portal. And notice here you'll have per product. So this isn't the right one because for VistaVail, you have this ref code on the end. Notice that the ref codes vary not just by affiliate, but they also vary by site, by product. So your ref code for each of these products is different. So you want to make sure that you do get the correct affiliate ref code at the end of your URL so that you will receive credit for the purchase and that they will post back into DIY tracks for you. Once you have your offer page with your affiliate link and your affiliate ref code on the end in here, you are set and ready to go. Of course, if you're promoting a ClickBank product or a product from another affiliate network, then the URL is going to look a little different and your affiliate reference code is going to look different, be formatted differently as well. And if you are not using media mavens, then the links that you need will come from your affiliate network and they will not be in the BTS portal. Okay, so that's it. We've added our offer page link and we are essentially ready to go. We just need to do a last check over the campaign, make sure it is funded, and then we'll be ready to make sure things are live and set them to go.


---
Title: BTS Blitz - Traffic vid 8 Caterpillar Final QA 2025-10-20
Video ID: naBc9EBCx7dXwY1Q

In this video, we're going to do a final QA campaign check to make sure that everything is set properly before we go live. And then we will set it live. So the first thing to check is your campaign name, just that it's labeled appropriately so that you know what it is, the URL append token. Make sure that there are only underscores separating the different parts of this, no spaces, no dashes, no other punctuation in here. That is correct. Make sure that the offer promotion is correct for your type. In this case, we are promoting e-commerce product. Make sure the traffic source is correct, that the affiliate network is correct, that the macro template is correct and that the macros are appearing down below for that traffic source. Click on the traffic source tab, go to the product. This should show your product. Mine's having an issue right now, but I wouldn't worry about it. We did type it in. So if yours is showing like this, don't worry about it unless it causes a problem later. I think that's just a display glitch, but otherwise I think this should be fine. Sub campaigns, make sure that it is on, that the settings are correct, the budget per day. This is a daily budget, so make sure that that is correct, that the start date matches up and date with what you want it to run out like a couple of years. If you need to check this start date, you can come in here and see 10 21. So tomorrow at 6 a.m. If you've got everything ready to go, then tomorrow at 6 a.m. is appropriate and everything is set. Okay. And here, so I'm going to go ahead and cancel because I'm not changing any of the settings. Come over to the ads. Make sure that all my 10 ads are on double check your headlines to make sure those are correct. You can also go into the ads and make sure that the image is showing properly, that the logos are in there. Yeah. You may want to check some of these further ads that we duplicated just to make sure that the image is in there successfully and the logo, et cetera. And it is, this was eight. So just a spot check. You can go through and check each one if you want. Probably not necessary as long as spot check is holding and everything looks okay. Going down the line, click over to landing pages. Make sure that you've got the appropriate number of landing pages. So we've got 25 in here. We've got the active setting here so that all I have the blue dots of being active. You could change this to inactive right here and then that dot would be off. So I'll show you what that looks like. If we set that one to inactive, now that line becomes blue and you can see the dot is gone. So set that one back to active. Save. They're all there. Make sure I set an equal share just because I messed with that one. I want all to be at 4% across the 25 and we want them all to be active. That's good. Now the other thing that you should have done is checked this in a tab and gone through all five of your variations of headlines and five of your hero variations on your landing pages to make sure that they are displaying properly. I won't take the time to do all of that, but you should have done that already to check all of your headlines and heroes. Then, of course, at a minimum, you should have checked your links. So scroll down through your editorial until you find your link. Check that it is the correct DIY Tracks link showing up to the bottom left hand corner for your DIY Tracks instance. And those links are all appearing properly. Make sure the other elements like FAQs and notification boxes are all appearing properly. Links on the buttons should also be to that DIY Tracks. So that's your minimum check. You should have already QA'd that part, but this would be the time to go through and check all of these landing pages to make sure that they are working properly. Then come over to the offer pages. Make sure that you have your affiliate link in here, that it is not just the link to the product page, but that it has your appropriate affiliate ref code at the end. Make sure that the share is 100%. If there's only one, if there's more than one, make sure the share is appropriately split among them and that it's active. If you need to set equal share across multiple pages, you can do so. But once everything looks good in here, then we can come back to this basic info and our start time was for tomorrow at 6 a.m. I am ready for that to go live. So I'm going to toggle this to on. I'm going to go ahead and click save. And then once that saves, I am going to do the final test on this, which is come to links and pixels. This campaign URL, I'm going to go ahead and copy that to the clipboard. I'm going to open this up in a browser tab and then I'm going to come down and what we're checking is the link on this. So I'm going to come down and find a link. This is what you should see when you click on the link in your editorial. So if you come up to a blank white page, something is configured incorrectly because when we use this campaign URL and the campaign is live. So if you come up to a white page, one option is that your campaign is off. The second option is that something is not configured properly. But when we come down here, click boom, it opens up this posture pillow product page with our affiliate ref code at the end of the URL. Then you know that everything is good to go. That is the final check and now our campaign is ready and it should go live if we check in the stats view, we should see that visit through the campaign link. So I'm going to check this and search option all and that will likely be the only stat that shows, but we will probably have that one. Yeah, that one visit showing that we just did with our test click. So you'll notice this one doesn't have an ad ID associated with it. We have one ad click that's not associated with anything. That's because we just took that campaign URL without the ad. Notice that then it sent one visitor to headline v1 hero v1. And so then we have our aggregates showing those headline hero without visit. And then we have our posture pillow relief page. Yours if it's configured properly and you click through that link should show up as a visitor on your offer page as well. And that is it. Your campaign is ready to go and it should go live at the time scheduled within the sub campaign. So right here, sub campaign, start date and time. If you want to click in here to see it. So 6 a.m. on this day, that is the day that it is set and the time that is set to go live for. So campaign is on. Everything is live, ready to go. It has tested properly. And all we need to do is come back tomorrow and check to see if the traffic is flowing.


---
Title: BTS Concierge
Video ID: W2EWjAXnSz8UjQvB

Welcome BTS members. Today I wanna introduce you to one of the most valuable resources available to you as part of the BTS experience, the BTS Concierge. This service was designed to eliminate bottlenecks, save you time, and give you the professional edge you need to thrive in affiliate marketing. Let's break it down. Even with all the incredible tools and training we provide, we know that life happens. Sometimes you just need an extra hand. And not just any hand. You need experts who know what they're doing and can handle tasks that might otherwise slow you down. That's where the BTS Concierge steps in. This isn't your typical virtual assistant team. These are industry professionals, skilled specialists who I personally pay premium rates to support our members. Whether you're looking to build complete landing pages from scratch, create animated GIFs for banner ads and landing page hero shots, design and deliver high quality banners, connect landing pages to proprietary tools within the portal, optimize your campaigns after they've launched, get overviews of each proprietary software application we provide in the BTS portal. Our concierge team is here to make it happen. These experts are committed to ensuring nothing stands in the way of your success. But the true crown jewel of the BTS Concierge service is the one-on-one Zoom calls. Imagine having direct access to seasoned professional who can guide you through your challenges, answer your questions, and help you solve problems in real time. These personalized sessions are by far the most valuable aspect of the concierge service. It's hard to even put a price tag on this kind of clarity and progress these calls can provide. And the best part? Inside BTS, these one-on-one Zoom calls are included for our members. Let me put this into perspective. In the affiliate marketing world, experts like these typically charge anywhere from $40 to $50 per hour, and you'd need at least three to five professionals to handle all the moving parts of setting up and running a successful campaign. Now, imagine you found a unicorn, one person who could do it all, working 25 hours a week at just $30 an hour. That's still $750 per week or $36,000 per year. With the BTS Concierge, you're essentially getting access to the same level of expertise without the massive price tag or hassle of finding and managing multiple freelancers. Ready to get started? Below, you'll find a simple form where you can submit your request to the concierge team. For those who need further clarification or want personalized guidance, you can also book a one-on-one Zoom call with the concierge via our calendar. Just tell us what you're looking for and we'll handle the rest. Most tasks are turned around within 24 hours depending on the complexity. Don't wait to take advantage of this incredible resource. The BTS Concierge is here to help you succeed every step of the way. Let's get to work.


---
Title: p and l tracker
Video ID: hy_gSU76KYzDBu5u

Hey guys, quick video to show you how to use the P&L tracker. The P&L tracker stands for profit and loss tracker. It's a simple profit and loss spreadsheet to help you keep track of your media buys. So on the resources page, if you hover over the resources nav item, go down to the very bottom to other resources, you'll see it's the first tab here, P&L tracker. You can download it here and you can watch the same video training here, which is what you're watching right now. So first thing we'll need to do is download it. So just click on download and this is going to take you to a page that looks like this where you have to make a copy of it for yourself. We don't want you editing the one master file, so you got to make a copy. So click on this, make a copy, give it just a second and it will open up for you. Okay, here we are. Okay, and so what you'll see down below are three tabs. What we're looking at here is the totals tab. This will give you a high level view of the month. And this is the charts tab, which will show you all the different metrics, kind of a high level view for the different metrics, ad spend, clicks, revenue, sales, net profit, etc. And then the third tab is where you're going to be putting in data. This is going to be the monthly tab right here. Okay, so this, as you can see, is 8-2024, so August of 2024. And the dates correlate with that. 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, all the way to the end of the month. As you can see there. Okay, now how you change the date. Okay, this is really important. This is step one. So, you know, you're probably not going to be watching this in August 2024, it may be September, October, November, who knows when, right? Could be another year, 2026. What you want to do is click on this drop down arrow and then click on rename to the month. So let's say it was October 2024. All right, click outside of it to deselect. And notice what happens though, nothing to the heading, all the different headers. The date doesn't change. And so the date is changed by this first cell right here. So you have student name, overall, and this first cell up top in this navy blue. This is what you change. So if you click on that once, you see this 8-1-2024. That's what you need to edit. So we would change that to 10-1-2024. And then once you click outside of it, notice what happens. The dates change for the whole sheet all the way to the end of October. Okay, so that's how you do that. Now, what you'll want to do if you want to see in the totals tab, if you want to see October numbers, go back to totals. You'll see it still says August 2024. You have to select this radio box to get it to refresh. So update by checking the checkbox below. So we click on that and there we go. October 24. Whatever tab, whatever month that is in here is what will show up right here. Okay, so now that we've created our first month, what I want you to do is put in some dummy data so you can see what it looks like in these other two tabs. So you're going to be running a lot on live intent. So let's just focus on live intent here. So add spend for 10-1. Let's say we spent $456. 10-2 we spent $856. 10-3 we spent $756. Okay. Clicks. Let's see, we got 358 there. We got 642 there. And then we got 602 there. Just dummy data. We're making this up. This is where you'll put in your numbers every day. So the sales, let's just say we got two here and we got four there and then we got five there. Revenue. We'll just make this up again. So let's say we did not quite break even for the day on that day. But this day with four sales, we got actually to profitability. Okay. And then this one right here with five sales, we got to quite a bit of profitability. 269. All right. So what you want to do is go to the totals tab and then hit this update and it updates for you. Actually, it was already updated, but that's just for good measure. And now you can see the clicks, sales, revenue, net profit, all these good metrics, juicy metrics here that you want to see for the month of October. All right. So now if we go to charts, we get to see the ad spend by the month of October. Clicks by October. This is sales, revenue, and net profit, return on investment, cost per click, CPA, EPC, etc. Okay. So you would just do that for every single day that you're running traffic. You put in the real numbers that you get from live intent and track your numbers perfectly. All right. So let's say you're running on another traffic source at the same time. Maybe it's the push DSP, which I don't think we have in here. You would just go to the next traffic source down right here, which is blank, all caps, DSP. You don't have to be, it doesn't have to be in all caps. I just like to do that because everything else was all capitalized here, all these other traffic sources. And then you would put in some dummy data here for that too. And you can track that as well. Okay. Let's see. So that's really it. You're right here. You can put in your name and then these are the overall numbers for the month. Okay. Right here. Everything in gray is a calculation. You do not touch any of that. The white bits are the only part that you touch. These are the only bits that you put information into. Okay. That's where the data goes. You can have as many traffic sources as you want. You can see this, this sheet goes on forever, so you could run probably a hundred different traffic sources at a time. Nobody ever does that, but you could, if you wanted. And if you wanted to, let's say we're at the end of October, we filled out the whole thing and we're into November. Well, you don't want to just overwrite your data and then, you know, put November's numbers over October's. What you want to do is create another tab, name it November and put in the November data in that tab. So I want to show you how to do that. So click on the drop down arrow beside 10-24 this tab and then duplicate. Cool. And then you'll want to click on the drop down arrow again and rename this to 11-24. Okay. And now remember these dates have not changed because we haven't changed the date in this first cell. So we got to click up there, change this to 11. And when you click outside of it, it updates across the board. Okay. So now let's put in some different data here. All right. Let's just, let's just change the ad spend for time's sake. And then you'll want to go to totals and you'll see there's only the October tab, right? But you have, I mean, the October totals are shown, but you have two tabs. And so to show the November totals as well right here, you click on this radio box. Boom. There it is. November. Okay. Pretty simple. Now, if we go to charts, we see October and November's data side by side. So it's just good to be able to visually look at your data. Some people are more visual than others. Some people can just look at these, these tabs with all the data on it and make sense of it. And that's fine. Others need to see charts and graphs and whatnot to understand where they're at. And so if you remember in this 11-2024 tab, we just changed the ad spend. All the other numbers were the same as October. So if we go to charts, that's what we should see here. So the ad spend is different. The other numbers are exactly the same. Identical, identical. Okay. Cool. And that's really all you need to know. Okay. So to reiterate really quick, just again, please do not edit any of these gray cells, these dark gray cells, only the white. The white is what you edit. If you click in there in one of these, you'll see there's no formula up here by FX. There's no formula, which means whatever you put in here is what's in there. Right. Click on 1235. That's what you put in there. Right. But if you click on any of these, you'll see some formulas. And so if you ride over the formulas, it's going to mess up the whole sheet. So please be careful and do not edit any of the gray, the light gray or the dark gray cells and just the white cells. All right. Well, I hope this has been helpful. Please use it every day. It's going to be a lifesaver for you to help you know exactly where you stand with all of your media buying.


---
Title: tips and tricks - nano banana
Video ID: 8a5iTjH5kCC_OgIs

Hey guys, in this week's tip, I want to show you Nano Banana. If you haven't heard of Nano Banana, it's Google's new image editor. It came out maybe a month ago, maybe six weeks ago. Pretty awesome. Cool things that you can do with it. So I wanted to show you how to get to it first. So if you just go to Google.com and you can search for Nano Banana, and it should be the first thing that pops up here. Right there, Google AI Studio is where it's at. Gemini 2.5 flash image, Nano Banana in parentheses. So click on that. Cool. So this is like the sales page for Nano Banana. But if you go up to the very top in the navigation up top right, you'll see get started. So click on that. It'll probably ask you to log in. And so you'll have to do that first. I'm already logged in, so I didn't have to go through that step. But then you'll want to go to like here, what's new, try Nano Banana. Click on that. Boom. Okay. So this is where the fun begins. So you can actually prompt it initially to create your first image, or you can give it an image and then edit the image however you want. And so if we just want to use their default prompt here, it says generate an image of a banana wearing a costume. We'll hit run, let it do its thing. And I'm not pausing. I'm doing this all in real time, just so you can see how quickly it does it. So pretty cool. A few seconds later, you have the image wearing a costume. Awesome. And if there's something you wanted to change about it, you can totally prompt it to change it. So for instance, give the banana googly eyes and then hit run. And let's just see what it does here. There we go. Big googly button eyes. I love it. Cool. You can then say things like change the background to a rainforest. And hopefully it keeps our banana intact exactly as it is, but then just changes the background. Yep, there we go. Pretty cool. Fun, fun stuff. All right. So there's quite a bit that you can do with this. I mean, it's really up to your imagination, which you output. But just to give you some pointers here, if you look on the right, you'll see this little bar over here and it tells you the version of Nano Banana you're using, gives you some system instructions. And then here's what I was going to get to the temperature. So if you hover over this, you'll see it says creativity allowed in the response. So if you want to give it more leeway, more creativity, you leave it at one. If you want to give it less, you put it all the way down, put zero. So if you're wanting just to make really specific edits and only change specific parts of the image, I would leave this really low. But if you want it to get really creative at first, I think that your initial prompt is probably good if you're not starting with an image just to move it all the way up to one. Now the aspect ratio, it does auto, which is looks like a one by one aspect ratio, but you can change this up. So if you want to do it for social media, nine by 16, and we can then do that. So let's just see what happens here. Generate again. Let's just see if it goes into nine by 16. All right, there we have it. Cool. So same exact image, just expand it out. As you can see, it expanded out the top and the bottom. So pretty cool. Flushed these areas out and that is used for social media. So you can also do typical aspect ratios, 16 by nine, which is the wider rectangular look that is often used for like thumbnails, YouTube thumbnails or YouTube videos. Three by four, four by three. These are typically like Facebook aspect ratios. There's a bunch here. Four by five is a good Facebook aspect ratio, but you do whatever you need to do. So for the purposes of Caterpillar, if y'all are using it to run in our Caterpillar traffic source initially, I mean, Caterpillar takes nine by 16 and 16 by nine. It will actually run one by one and all these other sizes as well. But I think you're better off just sticking with these two, nine by 16 for this specific placement within Caterpillar and then the 16 by nine. And I'll show you what the 16 by nine looks like. Okay, let's see what happens here. Awesome. There we go. So that's the typical like YouTube style video look. So if you're creating thumbnails, this could be a really good aspect ratio for you. And let's just say you wanted to create a thumbnail. You can say something like, let's just see what happens when it does that. You usually got to give it a little more direction, a little more specificity when doing these, but I like just to see what it comes up with initially. So it already has an idea of what a YouTube thumbnail looks like. And so look at that. Banana pirates adventure. This is the category. I love it. All right, so you can continue getting as creative as you like with these. But what if we were to upload an image and start with that one? So you just click on this little plus icon here and then upload file. Cool. There's a good image there. Some hot air balloons over the mountains. Very pretty. Let's say we wanted to add an eagle flying through the sky here. So we could just say. Here we go. Add a bald eagle flying on the right side of the image. There it is. Pretty cool. Pretty, pretty cool. Now let's turn the temperature down to zero and let's just see what happens here when we prompt it next. So we'll say. Of. Add an entire family of eagles. Okay, pretty cool. I did not give it any kind of creativity here. And so it looks like the eagles are all identical. So many of you are promoting bark Chester, right? So let's see if we can choose an image that might be used in those marketing materials. Let's do, why don't we do this fun lab here? Awesome. Cool. And let's say. Add studs in the sink with a yellow rubber ducky. Let's see what happens here. Oh my goodness. Look at that. That is perfect. Very realistic. Even the duck is staring straight at us. Love it. All right. So how about this one? Put cucumber slices over the dog's eyes as if he's chilling in a spa. Let's see if it'll do it. That is perfect. It doesn't get much better than this. And so what you can do is download the image. So you see this download icon, you can download that and you can use that in any of your marketing materials on the ads or landing pages. Or what I like to do is create a funny little image like this and then put it into Grok imagine and it will turn it into a short video, which can then be uploaded directly into Caterpillar or turned into a GIF with giftster or easy GIF and ran as an ad, an image ad in Caterpillar or used as a hero shot in Caterpillar. So pretty, pretty cool what you can do with this. It's really up to your imagination how you use this tool. Pretty phenomenal. I think we're finally there with AI to where we can create some killer marketing materials. We're like 95% as Sam Altman says, he thinks all marketing with AI can be done like 95% all the way through. And I believe it after using this tool. So give it, give it a shot, play around with it quite a bit. Use it for, you know, all your, your marketing assets. And I think you'll have some success with it. Cool.


---
Title: tips and tricks 1 - grok imagine
Video ID: ERMmmPggEuGl1j0K

Hey, what's happening, BTS? I got a cool little tip for you today. It's going to speed up your workflow. I found this, oh, I don't know, a couple weeks ago, and it's just been awesome. So, let's just get over here on Google. I'll show you what I'm going to do. I'm going to search for under eye bags, and I'm going to go to images. Kind of a typical way that we start a campaign by looking in Google, right? And so, let's say this lady here with these massive under eye bags is something that we were considering putting out into the wild. So, you could just save the image. I'll put it onto my desktop here. What I want to do now is go over to grok.com, and for those of you who do not know what grok is, it is XAI's Elon Musk's AI. And I do have a paid plan here. I think it's 20 bucks a month, but it is so worth it because this thing is awesome. And for what I'm about to show you, I think it's just worth it alone right here. So, they have this thing called Imagine. I don't know if y'all seen this or not, but Grok Imagine. And it's right here in the left sidebar. You click on Imagine, and what you do is you upload any image you want. Okay. So, I'm going to upload a file. I'm going to find the image here that we just downloaded. I'm going to double click it. There it is. It automatically goes. You can see it's going 25%, 30%. When it finishes, watch what it does. It's pretty awesome. It makes a video out of any image that you upload into it. It's pretty slick. See this? It also added audio to it, which we don't want. But let's say you wanted to, you know, run an animated GIF or include an animated GIF on a landing page. This is just a great way to turn a static image that you really like into an animation quickly with AI. Pretty awesome. So, you can either download it or you can redo it. And they have several options for redoing it. You can spice it up. You can make it more fun. Let's see what happens when we do fun. I typically just do normal because fun, you'll see what here in just a second. You'll see what it does, but it makes it a little crazy in my opinion. We are almost done here. Let's just check it out. I've never actually tried spicy. We might try that next. Let's just see what it does. Okay, so she's... I mean, some of that's usable until the end here. I don't know what that is, but definitely would not use that. Let's redo it in spicy. Oh, please confirm your age. Okay, this might be an adult thing. I'm not over 18. Restricted. Okay, so don't use spicy. So anyway, Grok Imagine. Pretty awesome. You can use these animations in ads for your banners, the images for your banners, or you can use them on your landing page. And not just your hero shots, but any part of the landing page that you want to. So that's the tip for today.


---
Title: tips and tricks 2 - anstrex native ad copy
Video ID: 4HUgSPTVgS7C2_XZ

Hey guys, I got a copywriting tip for you today. It's gonna be pretty cool. We're gonna use Anstrex and Claude. So I think you guys know where the logins are for Anstrex login. It's in the resources page. We don't have a shared Claude account, so you will need your own Claude account. All right, so let me just log into Anstrex real quick. Okay, so once we've logged in, what we're gonna do is adjust some of these filters up here. So I wanna do geo, United States, so it's USA. I'm gonna set the language to English. Cool. And I don't really care what networks, traffic networks, affiliate networks show up. That doesn't really matter. What we want is to sort by most popular overall. All right, and what we're gonna do is scroll all the way down until we cannot scroll anymore, essentially. So this might take a minute. This is just a good way to create some copy that is based off of proven winners here. So these are the most popular, most engaging in the Anstrex spy tool. All right, so you don't need to continue going forever. I would just go until you have several hundred results, and that's what we have so far. Okay, so I'm gonna stop right here. And what I'm gonna do is Control-A and Control-C. Okay, and now I'm gonna bring in all of that into Claude. And we're just gonna go Claude. Make sure you're using Opus 4.1 at the time of this recording. It's the best model. And then just paste it in, and it looks like this when you paste it in. And then now we just need to prompt it a little bit. All right, so here's the prompt. You are a direct response copywriting expert who specializes in writing hard-hitting, engaging native ad copy. Attached are several examples of native ads that are proven to convert. Your task is to write 15 native ads, max 90 characters, headlines, and descriptions for a dog product I'm promoting called Barkchester. The Barkchester advertorial copy is also attached, which will be where the visitor clicking on your ad will go next. Please proceed to write 15 native ad headlines that will sell the advertorial. Now you can reword this, rewrite it differently. It doesn't have to be exactly like this. That's the cool thing about AI. It understands what you're doing. And the next thing I wanna do here is actually add the advertorial copy for Barkchester. So we gotta go find that. All right, so I found it here. So all we wanna do is Control-A to highlight the whole thing, Control-C, and then we need to go back to Claude. Okay, here we are. And now you'll want to just come up here and then paste that in as well. So you have two things pasted in, the advertorial copy plus all of those native ads that we got from Anstrex. And that should do the trick. Let's just go ahead and click this button here, send the message and see what it comes up with. Look at that. Problem-solution focused, curiosity, discovery headlines, benefit-driven headlines, all for the product that you have chosen to promote. Urgency scarcity headlines, I love it. And of course, you would want to look through these to see which ones that you'd actually wanna use because this is obviously too many. But what you can do next is actually have it choose for you. So I'll let it just finish here. There we go. So let's give it a new prompt. All right, so I just said, excellent, now reorder them by how you think they will convert. Best converting headlines up top. So we'll hit that. It's gonna reorder them. Okay, here we go. It's got the top 10 highest converting headlines. Boom. Best to worst. Strong performers, solid performers, good supporting headlines. Excellent. So I would do this for just about anything that you do here. Copy-wise, I would also ask it at the end to sort it by the ones that it feels would convert the best. Gives you the reasoning here, which is really cool. So if you wanna learn why certain headlines perform better than others, this is why it would think that they would anyway. One thing I noticed is that there's no description here. So what I'll do is give it another prompt. I said, love it. Now just for the top 10, please also write the supporting description text. All right, let's hit it. Should start right away. There we go. Texas dog trainer's device ends lazy dog days forever. Love it. Vets stunned. Simple device gets any lazy dog moving in six minutes. These are so good. Dog won't play? This motion sensor toy changes everything. These are great. So I would actually use all these. It's as simple as that. All right, cool. Hopefully you found this helpful. That is the tip for today.


---
Title: tips and tricks 3 - headlines in a specific style
Video ID: wmIGaYXDGcAysvL0

Hey guys, handy headline tip for you today, 9-19-2025. Here we go. In the Creative Drive, creative.shareingtomedia.com, I want you to go into the copywriting folder here and go to headlines. And you can really choose any of these, but for this example, I'm going to choose this one, writing killer headlines right here. So I'm going to click on that and then just right click and download it. All right, and we're going to open up Claude and paste in this prompt. Boom. Do not hit enter. Do not start the chat just yet because we've got to attach a few things here, but here's the prompt. You are a direct response copywriting expert who specializes in writing hard-hitting headlines for native ads that have an extremely high conversion rate. Your task today is to come up with 30 top tier headlines that follow the attached headline formula, writing killer headlines. The product you're promoting is a dog toy called Barkchester. The Barkchester advertorial is attached as well. Proceed to write 30 headlines. Okay, so we need to attach the writing killer headlines PDF that we just downloaded. So I'm going to click on the plus, upload a file, navigate to the file. There it is. And then we also need to go over to the Barkchester advertorial page and then Control-A to highlight the whole thing, Control-C to copy it. And then go back in here to Claude and then just at the end here, just hit Control-V and then it will paste it to the chat there. All right, so now we're ready to go. We can actually hit this orange button here. Boom. And I'll do this real time so you can see how quickly it comes up with the headlines. Pretty good way to write headlines that are formatted or tailored to a certain way like this one right here, this writing killer headlines, they have a certain style that they write. All those other documents that you saw there in the copywriting folder there for headlines, there's a lot more different styles. And so you can, this is just one to choose from. You can you can choose any of the others. All right. So here are 30. Okay. All right. So now that we have the 30, I'm going to prompt it again and say, great. Now please order them by conversion rate. I want to see the ones you think will perform the best up top. Hit that button again. And it'll give us what it feels like are the best ones. There we go. Cool. And it gives you the reason why. Combines location credibility, specific timeframe, clear transformation. Here's a strong testimonial opener, creates curiosity with strange, implies superiority. Love it. So when it calls these top tier and strong performers, then mid high performers, I would probably just start with the top 10 here. So the top tier and the strong performers. All right, so these can be used in ads and on landing pages. Play around with this, you know, upload the other docs that are in that headlines folder and just, you know, see what the results look like. You might come up with hundreds and then put them all into Claude or maybe you're all working in just this one chat and you have hundreds in here and then you just get like the top 10 out of the hundreds that you create. So take time with it. This is where you went. All right, cool. Tip of the day.


---
Title: tips and tricks 4 (1)
Video ID: sugpfpVtoqSG95t6

Hey gang, tip of the week, 9-26-2025. In this video, I want to show you a campaign that is working pretty well in Caterpillar that I feel like could be optimized with a little bit more creativity. I'm going to show you how to get creative with what I'm seeing here. So today's date is 9-26-2025 and you can see there have been three sales here on this Bark Chester campaign. I've spent $2.55, had three sales for $85 CPA and two of the three sales have come from this one video right here, this little puppy. So if I click on this, here's the puppy. That's cute. It's almost like a cartoon drawing of this puppy. Interesting. The original image is not a cartoon, which is why I'm saying it's interesting. So it was just a normal image of a dog, but then the Grok, I used Grok Imagine and it turned it into a video with that cartoon effect. Anyway, this is the one that is doing the best. As you can see, it has two sales for $20 CPA, so it's profitable. Now, it's always good to see how long this particular ad has been running and then actually get the true CPA for the ad. So it's actually spent $92 at two sales. So yeah, it's actually doing the best out of all of them. Many in here are doing really well as well. So five sales at 67, 368, 9 at 72, 6 at 73, 10 at 97. Bunch of these are turned off here. So these are the best performers down below. But let's say you've identified a winning image. Okay. Because these are all using the same headline. Every one of these. And I've just found this image that for whatever reason, it's doing better. Okay. I know this is a low sample size and it's two versus five or two versus three, but let's just say this is a clear winner. It's pulled away from the others. Well, you'd want to try to create iterations of this video that pop a little bit more. Okay. And so I want to show you one cool way that I found to do it with AI. And the particular AI is called Quinn. Q-W-E-N. This is a Chinese AI and it's really good at making small edits to images. Okay. And so I want to show you the original image that I put in here. Hopefully you can see this on my screen. And then let me find the image. Here it is. So here it is again. This is the original image. Okay. So I'm going to upload this image into Quinn and then just modify it slightly. Okay. So what you want to do is go to image edit here and then you upload the image by clicking the image icon. Here are all my pups. And this is the guy right here. So I'm going to click on that one and then open it up. There we go. Okay. So let me drag the image over here. What could we do to this to make it pop a little bit more? Well, one thing you can do is give him more hair maybe or change his eye color. I do this all the time with my images. I'll change the eye color because it's just shocking. So change it to something that a dog's eyes normally would never be. Right. So like green, for instance. All right. So let's go in here and just say, make the dog's eyes green. Okay. And I'm not going to pause this. I'll just let it go in real time so you can see how quickly it does it. But hopefully it will just keep the picture like almost exactly like we gave it the original and then just change the eye color. That has been my experience using Quinn. It just, it's very good at making precise little changes. So, Hey, look at that. That's perfect. That is just perfect. So what I would do at this point is then take this image over into Grok Imagine. Okay. And then make another video with it. So we could even do that here. I know I made another tip using Grok Imagine, but we can download this and we can go to Grok. All right. So once you're in Grok, you go to Imagine, click on the little paperclip icon there, then upload a file and then navigate to where we have the picture of the dog with the green eyes. And here he is. Okay. So click him, hit open. Grok will begin doing its thing and turning this image into a video. All right. Here is our new video. So it added that same cartoony type effect to it, which is cool. And his, now his eyes are green. I love it. And so I would just download this and literally upload that exact video into Caterpillar and test it. Now I'm back in Quinn because I'm just curious what would happen if we did try to add a little bit longer hair to this puppy. So I'm going to click on edit. It's going to take this image and put it into the image edit. And then let's just say, give the dog slightly more hair. Let's see what happens here. Okay. Doesn't look like it did a whole lot. Maybe we have to be more specific about the hair. Make this a shaggy dog. Okay. So that's a little bit better. There's your shaggy dog. You could possibly test this dog here. You could change his eye color up. You could change his hair color. Maybe we try that next. Let's just go back to this image here because let's say we like that one the best and we'll just say, make the dog's fur white. Let's see if it will actually do it. My goodness. Look at that. That is great. The original right here and then boom, white hair, green eyes. If you can't get a version of this to out convert the control, man, I would be really surprised. Change his eyes to red, orange, maybe a fiery green or like an albino kind of a blue, like a very light blue eyes. So there's lots that you can do with, with Quinn, lots that you can do with Grok Imagine. I would really use these two because this is what I'm, I'm leaning on a lot recently and it's working really well.


